Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: October 12th, Marta Quinn. Therapist: Betty Johnson. First counsel.
(audio gap)
COUNSELOR: This and basically we can start just by telling me a little bit about yourself. What is it important for me to know about you.
PATIENT: Okay, so. I cry... (laughs)
COUNSELOR: Oh that's okay. There's plenty of Kleenex there. It's definitely okay. What are your tears about right now?
PATIENT: It's always like this.
COUNSELOR: It's okay.
PATIENT: Every time I start... it's like-but it's okay. COUNSELOR: It's okay.
PATIENT: Okay, so...
COUNSELOR: Just take some deep breaths and some... PATIENT: (cries)
COUNSELOR: It seems like you're in a lot of pain?
PATIENT: No, no, it's just -
COUNSELOR: No pain?
PATIENT: Sex?
COUNSELOR: Stress.
PATIENT: Stress. Okay.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: So thing are a little bit overwhelming or... [0:01:38.5] COUNSELOR: Okay.
  about:srcdoc
Page 1 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
PATIENT: Okay, so I'm from Portugal. And I moved to Whitehall in March. It was March 2005, yeah, last year. So I've been here for one and a half years. I work as a researcher at a college pharmacy. And I-basically I came to Whitehall-I accepted a job. My boss, he's from Portugal, and he was recruiting people there to work in the labs, like technicians and pharmacists. I came to work with him and always looking for-to do a PhD. I knew if I came here and worked here, and had the experience, I could it would be really easy to do.
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: To do a PhD. I am doing that. I am applying to schools right now. And that's one of the reasons I wanted to come here this time. It's a lot of stress, writing the...
COUNSELOR: Statements...
PATIENT: The statements. Taking the exams. Like the GR-well I already took the GRE and the TOEFL but it was a lot of stress. I studied for a whole year. And I took it. And it was not good. The English part sucked. It was really bad, but oh well. I already took it twice-twice, so I'm not going to take it again. And my boss said it didn't matter. Like my TOEFL, the English was the TOEFL was good, but the English part (inaudible at 0:03:29.7) it was not good. And the professors there, they know me. He said, "It doesn't matter." They know that I can
COUNSELOR: That you're competent...
PATIENT: Express my feel-what I think and I understand them. So he said it doesn't care-it doesn't care the GRE well. Right now I'm writing the statements and looking for people to give me the recommendation letters and filling out everything. That's one of the reasons I wanted to came, I wanted to come here because it's a lot of stress and then I get rejections from other schools. How every process is, you get accepted to some schools until their...
COUNSELOR: And some you don't. PATIENT: You don't.
COUNSELOR: And so how to deal with that... PATIENT: Yeah.
PATIENT: Process. You're looking for support in that area? Support in[0:04:28.5] (crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: No, in everything but that was one of the things that made me quite uncomfortable. Back in college, in my house everywhere I was way better than the rest. So when you come here and realize, "Oh my God. Everyone here is really good." And then you're not the best.
So you end up being quite-yeah, and I'm the good girl in the house. My brother is the one that does all the bad things and I never felt like I was not the best one. So I knew that here and of course everyone is really good at what they do and they have a lot of experience The people that apply to the programs are really good so I was really very proud of that. And that's another thing-suddenly you stop being the best one and you're just another one from the boat. (ph) So that's hard. I have toand then...
about:srcdoc Page 2 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
PATIENT: I definitely understand that because you come from one area or era in your life where you were the shining star, so to speak.
COUNSELOR: And then you come-
PATIENT: And then you come here, it's like all these other shining stars-does my light my star isn't shining as much. And so yeah, I think especially doctoral programs when you apply a lot of people feel that way. It's understandable.
COUNSELOR: I have friends that I know are citizens. And they're the same-"My God, I feel like I'm stupid. I'm not good. I'm-I cannot even say what I'm thinking. Nobody understands what I'm thinking. So I understood that-it was awful at the beginning. But I understood that it happens to everyone once you get to PhD programs are. [0:06:27.8]
PATIENT: But it [still doesn't] (ph) there are a lot of people are going through it, it still doesn't take away from how it feels. Your feeling is definitely real and I'm sure that was definitely and still be an adjustment.
COUNSELOR: That's how I feel. That and-the fact that being really far away from your family. (cries) PATIENT: Sure.
COUNSELOR: That makes me really sad.
PATIENT: Definitely.
COUNSELOR: Who are your family? Who's in Portugal?
PATIENT: My mom, my dad. My brother is in Australia, so he's far away too.
COUNSELOR: That has to be tough.
PATIENT: Yeah. And the other thing is-I don't know why I'm crying so much. I always cry a lot. COUNSELOR: That's okay. Tears are... you know, you're human.
PATIENT: And the other thing is, in Portugal, I lived in the capital city. When you start college, you don't have to move away because I really-I lived right in the city and then go to school. It's a really centralized country. The good colleges are in the same area where you live. And usually people that live in Lisbon, the capital city, we don't have to move up from our house. So of course it's the first time I live away from my parents. 0:07:55.4}
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: By myself, I have to take care of when you live with your parents, even though you make money, you have dinner there. That's another thing. Living by myself.
COUNSELOR: You live by yourself? PATIENT: No, I have-I have a roommate.
about:srcdoc Page 3 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
COUNSELOR: Okay, well living by yourself meaning you're away from your family and [all the separation] (ph).
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: I have to take care of everything. Cleaning...
COUNSELOR: Certain responsibilities.
PATIENT: Yeah, and grocery shopping. I've never had to do that before. Now it's better-now I deal with it. But real hard.
COUNSELOR: So is that a part of your stress, having to do so much that you're not used to doing? Taking care of your own?
PATIENT: No, it's more like... the stress (inaudible at 0:08:44.5). Like what, like feeling? Like you depend on your own? But that's getting better, but it was worse, living here. No but now I mean-I used to and now I'm starting to enjoy it and to enjoy... that but well, it's hard. And the plans (ph) and everything. That's hard too.
COUNSELOR: Definitely a little a bit about that area when you say (inaudible at 0:09:16.9) that's hard too.
PATIENT: No, I mean And then all my friends in Portugal they are the same since-the schools there. I went to a private school. Schools there You started your school with the same people that you graduate. We don't get- we don't have different school. We don't have middle school and high school, and junior high. We have a whole school. So you start with the same people since you are four years old and then you graduate with them when you are 18.
COUNSELOR: Wow.
PATIENT: So you end up making really good friends.
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: Or really good enemies.
(laughter)
COUNSELOR: Either way, it can work out.
PATIENT: Yeah, quite well. So we are really close together, with them. I have five or six people that I really- I'm really really close with.
COUNSELOR: Do you have any contact with them now?
PATIENT: Yeah, one of them lives in Houston The other one, New York. But the four-the other four live in Lisbon. So we e-mail, with messenger, the skype the-you can have contact with them. You see them in the web camera.
COUNSELOR: But it's nothing like being face to face and being able to hang out and do things. That's what's
about:srcdoc Page 4 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
your-there's emotion missing?
PATIENT: That's what I am missing. And I of course (ph)-oh well. So I came here, and I have really good friends, but they're all graduated already. Or they're-it's their last year in school. Or they're post-docs so they stay here for three years. So now they're starting to leave, to graduate.
Or they're really busy so they never have time. "Let's go out for a coffee." "No, I don't have time." Or "Let's go out this weekend and then have dinner." "No, I don't have time." And I mean-I would be in the same situation, if they're PhD, they're going to graduate. They like to...
COUNSELOR: To handle time differently. (ph)
PATIENT: Yeah and I think this society is more "We have to work; we have to do a lot of things." And well- in Portugal, it's not like that. People-
COUNSELOR: Relationships are more important or... [0:11:27.4]
PATIENT: Yeah, and work is just not as important as here. People don't work 80 hours a week. I have to work my boss works 60 hours and he pretends me to work 60 hours. Which at the beginning was awful. But then, everybody's working 60, 70 hours a week. You end up working.
COUNSELOR: And that has to be-so not only do you have an adjustment from being the good girl, the one who has been better, then coming here and everyone else is great too.
PATIENT: But they also work harder than you and they...
COUNSELOR: But then there's this [adjustment to] (ph) where in your culture, in your culture, where you're from, relationships and spending time is more important than work and having to adjust to this American culture where work is-
PATIENT: No one has even time for lunch. In Portugal, having lunch is a really important thing. I used to go out for lunch with my friends. My work there? You used to go-you go out and you have one and a half hours, two hours of lunch and nobody looks at you. But here when you have to give all these reports to your boss or... So no, and people have lunch in front of their computer which makes me-for me that's really bad. That's the opposite of-
COUNSELOR: Everything that you probably know.
PATIENT: So it's hard. Hard like other culture of things. Here, no one has time. And...
COUNSELOR: Have you, at all, tried to find friends who are from Portugal or find people who are from cultures that have...
PATIENT: Oh, sorry.
COUNSELOR: That's okay. You can connect with..?
PATIENT: I had a lot of friends from Portugal, even-I even had a boyfriend. I broke up with him two weeks ago which was also, another reason. They all graduate. You know how the population in Whitehall is very a
about:srcdoc Page 5 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
lot of people come, but a lot of people leave and it's rotating (ph). And I mean... there are not a lot of people from Portugal are there. I know eight people from Portugal in whole Whitehall. [0:13:52.0]
And, that part is really difficult. And I don't know, the relationships-and I guess it's because of their-people here are so independent. The relationships between two people, I mean-You have, okay. To hang out with your friends in Portugal, you don't have to do any plans. You just hang out. Either you call another, it's like "What are you doing?" "Nothing." "You want to come and watch TV?" You would do that there. But here you either have to plan to go for dinner or to go watch a movie. Everything has to be planned.
COUNSELOR: To be so scheduled.
PATIENT: And I'm from the culture where-of course, we're from third world. Everything is disorganized. So having such a schedule. I have to plan my weekends two months in advance and I'm like, what? I just want to enjoy my weekends. Then if I want to do any plans, two months in advance. So that if you want to do something, you have to plan it two months in advance. Otherwise people will not have time to hang out with you. So that... [0:15:01.2]
COUNSELOR: That has to be frustrating.
PATIENT: Yeah, that-I mean, it's really weird. But oh well.
COUNSELOR: So how is this affecting you, Marta, when you talk about adjusting to the-I mean the stress or applying to these doctoral programs, fearing a rejection, dealing with the different cultural shocks of different cultural adjustments. Not having a support, being away from your family. How's it-how does it impact you on a day-to-day?
PATIENT: I think it's oh how does it affect me? COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: No I just-I don't feel happy. (ph) I enjoy a lot now. I enjoy my work a lot and I have fun at work. But then sometimes you're-no, I don't know, you feel lonely and sad. I like when, not that much, but let's say I called three weeks ago, the anxiety I was feeling. My friend from New York, he called me (inaudible at 0:16:17.5) and he was like, "Oh, you should come to New York." I realize, I've never been like that, but now I-I don't to fly, I don't want to... I'm afraid of flying. (cries) I don't want to take another flight. I think I had a lot of flights this year. I went to different places. I don't enjoy them at all.
COUNSELOR: Okay, so now it's some type of some the start of some anxiety you're [responding to] (ph).
PATIENT: And now-I used to not be worried about secure-in Portugal we have security problems. But I never felt insecure. But then I come to Whitehall, which is like-there's nothing happens here. It's really secure.
COUNSELOR: Safe.
PATIENT: I feel like-yeah, it's really safe. And then I come here and I feel like I don't want to walk along. And something happened last year that someone was staring through my window.
COUNSELOR: Oh wow. [0:17:16.0]
about:srcdoc Page 6 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
PATIENT: And I don't know if they were trying to come into my bedroom or-but they were just there. COUNSELOR: Was it a male, or could you (inaudible at 0:17:25.4).
PATIENT: Yeah, I couldn't see him. I just saw someone was watching me change, through the window. So I was like-that never happened before and I live on the second floor. So this person walk up through the-what is the name? The fire...?
COUNSELOR: Fire escape.
PATIENT: Fire escape and it wasn't watching. COUNSELOR: Oh wow.
PATIENT: That was this-I feel so insecure. COUNSELOR: Sure. I would imagine you would!
PATIENT: And then, it's because of this. He was-I don't know. And it was a really crappy house so the windows were really easy to open. So the police came and they were saying that the guy was following me. So they start to say all these things. So I got really-I don't know. At the beginning I just thought it was someone watching. You know, look
COUNSELOR: You just thought it was somebody peeking in your window. And then come to find out, this guy was following you?
PATIENT: Yes. I don't think he was following me. I don't even want to think that. I just think that it randomly happened. That the guy saw someone changed. And decided to go up. There are crazy people here. So that affected me a lot. [0:18:33.0]
COUNSELOR: That's terrible that you have to experience that.
PATIENT: Yeah, I changed to a... like a safer place, I think. At least there's no fire escape in my window. COUNSELOR: Did I mean, you had a roommate at that time?
PATIENT: Yeah. She was not in the house. She was outside.
COUNSELOR: So you were by yourself? Who are some of your roommates now?
PATIENT: My roommate is one of my friends from the college pharmacy. She's a PhD student. She's really independent so... For me to live with her is perfect. She's really organized. She's really clean. She does everything. I used to have problems with my old roommate because she was really messy. She was from Portugal. And she was really messy. And she got married. And she brought a husband home and I'm like "I don't want to live with a husband, with a couple."
COUNSELOR: Oh! (laughs) Did she talk to you before she [moved him in] (ph)? (crosstalk)
about:srcdoc Page 7 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
PATIENT: She said it was going to be temporary but... COUNSELOR: [Oh I get it.] (ph)
PATIENT: It ended up being a whole year but oh well. COUNSELOR: Oh.
PATIENT: No I have all-now it's everything is good. But yeah, I'm lonely. And since I broke up with my boyfriend, so... it's I'm I feel more like that.
COUNSELOR: And how long ago-what's your ex-boyfriend's name?
PATIENT: My ex-boyfriend's name? Jose.
COUNSELOR: Jose.
PATIENT: And he's from Portugal and he came to Whitehall to do the math with. (ph) COUNSELOR: He's in engineering? Okay. And how long were you and...
PATIENT: We were together for one and half-one year and five months. We started dating right after I got here. After a month. I got here, we started dating. It was-it was really nice because it was someone from your same culture that understands the language. You don't have to think in English because it's annoying to him to think in English. Say everything you need and... so I-it was not as bad. I don't know. At the end, I was not happy. He was not happy. He was you can tell when someone is not happy in a relationship. [0:20:43.8]
COUNSELOR: How could you tell in this relationship?
PATIENT: He didn't care that much. He always used to say that I needed a lot of love and a lot of attention, more than whatever he could give me. He was tired. He didn't want to hang out with me. And he doesn't-he moved to Concord, so he lives in Concord. He's been living there since February. And we used to see each other at least once-and he worked in Whitehall, so he commutes here every day.
So we used to see each other at least twice a week and it ended up being one day a week, during the weekend. He used to hang out with his friends a lot and I don't know-he didn't want to be in a relationship. And I could feel it. So I did something really bad. I was using his computer at his house. He was sleeping because had a hangover-is that how you say it? Hangover. Okay.
So I was using his computer and then-well I was not (ph)-when I called here and asked for the appointment, I was feeling really bad. I was still with him, but things were really bad. And it's not like it's explicit bad, but it's just like-you can feel it.
COUNSELOR: You can feel it. [0:22:05.6]
PATIENT: It had this-the sensation that something is not good. So that weekend I went to his house and I was using his computer. And then this conver-this conversation with his sister. She pops out in the messenger. And there's this conversation with her. I knew something was not good. I thought he was dating someone else, he was cheating on me? So I was like I have to find this out, because I'm going to get crazy about it.
about:srcdoc Page 8 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
So I look into the conversation with his sister and he's like "Oh yeah, I'm really tired of Marta and I don't know how to how to break up with her. And I'm really tired. I don't want to be with her anymore." So it was really bad. But the good thing is like I kind of like-because at the beginning I felt like-when I started feeling that the relationship was not good. I was like, "I'm just imagining this. I must be crazy. I'm under a lot of stress, and anxiety. I'm starting to imagine things." Because he never told me, "I'm not happy" or "I want to have a time." He never said anything. It was just like...
COUNSELOR: "Or maybe it's just me and this isn't real (ph)"
PATIENT: So that was good because I knew that there was not-it was not in my head. It was real. He didn't- he was not happy with me either. So, the next day I told him, we need to take a time (ph), break up and think about things. And think about if we want to be together or not. And I never tell him that-
COUNSELOR: That you saw that.
PATIENT: Yeah, that was not good. But at least it gave me-what is it the-
COUNSELOR: Confirmation that you were...
PATIENT: Yeah, the clue that something was...
COUNSELOR: Right. Because it's one thing to kind of feel and wonder, "Is it just me? I'm under a lot of stress. Maybe I'm just imagining it." [0:24:04.2]
PATIENT: And I probably was well-it might be like I was under a lot of stress, so I kind of like-he was unhappy with it, but oh well. Yeah, and he was-I remember that all the time, he was telling me that he couldn't give me all the love that I wanted. He couldn't give me-yeah-like he-I don't know how to say it in the English language-he couldn't replace all the love that I used to have from my family, my friends. Everyone in Portugal, and he could not be all of it, so. (cries)
COUNSELOR: Okay, sure. And that must have been really difficult for you to to hear. Here, you really like the guy, you're enjoying your time with him, especially without having support from your family, you [found someone] (ph) from your culture and you guys are getting along. And you want somebody to spend your time with. And then to hear that he can't love you the way that you would like to, that makes you-
PATIENT: Yeah, but I that's-Yeah but that's I mean, this-it happened what, two weekends ago or something and now I feel like saying "Well, if he cannot give me all the love, I shouldn't be with him. Because I shouldn't be with someone that is not able." And I was his first girlfriend. He always had a-he used to be the like is that the player? That they call it?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, he had a lot of...?
PATIENT: He went to college in Louisiana and then he moved here for like-so-even though he's from Portugal, he's really adapted. He enjoys a lot of things by himself, doing all these things. He used to love dating a lot of girls. So then I came and he's like, "I don't understand how you trapped me."
Well, as a joke, he was telling me this. He never had a girlfriend, so I was the first one. And I think he he I mean yeah, he, it's difficult, like the first relation-serious relationship you have for more than three months or four months. It's hard. I-well-so. So yeah, so I'd rather be alone and enjoy my own time.
about:srcdoc Page 9 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
COUNSELOR: You'd rather be alone? [0:26:32.8] PATIENT: Than with him.
COUNSELOR: Okay, than with him. Okay.
PATIENT: I mean I don't want to I don't want to be with someone that is not able to love me or-that thinks I'm a heavy load for him. And, he also has a really low-what is it-what he sees in women is women are bad. Women in our culture in Portugal. We are since it's-there's a lot of machismo, is that how you say it in English?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, machismo.
PATIENT: So women used to be-no, women are really manipulated. We grow up and we see how our mothers-they do all these things because they can not be strong and say, "We don't want this" so they have to manipulate the whole situation and. Yeah. I think that's how it is. You cannot be a strong woman. You have to be like "Ah" like smile to whatever your husband says. But so to be able to do whatever you want, you have to manipulate your husband.
So that's how a lot of the women in Portugal are. So instead of fighting, you just kind of let your husband pretend that it's everything that he says is right. "We're doing this house." "Whatever, you say." But it's not like that. They would manipulate the guy. And that's how-that's how they teach you. Just make him-let him pretend-just pretend that he is the one in charge and then you do everything. So Jose used to say that women are like-and his mom is really like that because she doesn't my mom is more liberal.
My mom is younger and she works. And she's she always had her money and she always used to do of course with my father-but she always was in charge of finances in my house and things like that. So my mom is a really strong person in my family. And in his family, it was his dad. His mom never worked, always cooked and she doesn't even have she doesn't have any idea what she-she just does whatever the father says.
So I come from a house where my mom is-so the woman-how do you say this? Image is really strong. She- even though my dad makes more money than my mom. My mom is really-she takes a lot of economic decisions. Decisions about whatwhich school we go, and we talk to her. And my dad was more quiet and passive. And my mom was more active. And his family is the opposite. And for him it was really shocking. He's like-he was-he was-he was not very comfort-how do you say that? He always used to be really, really shocked when I used to make decisions. 0:29:54.2}
COUNSELOR: He was caught off guard, probably. PATIENT: Like what?
COUNSELOR: He was probably caught off guard?
PATIENT: Yeah, he's used to-he's the one who makes decisions. And the guys in his house are the ones that make a lot of money. So whenever, every time I just-"Let's go and hang out with my friends." And he's like, "No, I don't want to." "Okay, I will just go with them." I would really enjoy we could hang out and do my plans sometimes because we always do yours. He wasn't-he was really shocked. "Why are you telling me to do whatever you want?" And he used to-he has told his family that I was really bossy and I used to tell him
about:srcdoc Page 10 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
what to do and what not to do. And he's really bossy too-so we were-
COUNSELOR: Clashing sometimes, sure.
PATIENT: A lot of conflict. [0:30:45.9]
COUNSELOR: So part of the break up may have had to do with-when you said, when you say that you were he thought you were a burden or needed too much attention.
(audio gap)
COUNSELOR: Right, so maybe that wasn't part-
PATIENT: Yeah, and I'm really wealthy. (ph) And my ex-boyfriend he used to be-I'd call him and he'd say, "Yes" to everything. That was something I never had an experience with, so that was really a shock for me.
COUNSELOR: Okay, Marta, we've come to the end of our time today. And you've shared a whole lot of information. I didn't get a chance to write everything down. That's why actually I'm happy that we have the tape. (laughs) The tape I can go back and hear.
PATIENT: I I talk a lot.
COUNSELOR: No, but it's all good. And I know, and I hope-you seem a little lighter (ph) than how you presented when you first came into the room. And I'm not sure if talking about some of this stuff is-if that was helpful to you or not?
PATIENT: Yeah, it's really... [0:31:56.2]
COUNSELOR: Okay, yeah. And so I definitely want to continue learning about you and helping you. This is a lot that you had to put up with in such a short amount of time. That I could see why the tears are there, and you feel stressed and overwhelmed. I definitely want to help you with those things. Okay? So this is what I'm proposing, and you can let me know what you think. We can set up a second appointment for next week. Are you interested in doing that? Would you want to come twice next week? Or once, next week.
PATIENT: Once, because next week I have two meetings and a poster (ph) day and...
COUNSELOR: A lot going on. (laughs) Let's do that, let's set up a session for next week and we can continue our discussion. Does this time work out?
PATIENT: Can it be a little bitI don't know, it's okay.
COUNSELOR: What?
PATIENT: A little bit later, either like 5:00 or 6:00 or-but it's okay, I mean.
COUNSELOR: If 4:00 is okay, we can do it okay. I have a 6:00 already and we may be able to move you to 5:00.
PATIENT: No but just-for-it's okay.
about:srcdoc Page 11 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
COUNSELOR: Are you sure? Because I don't want to conflict with any of your other scheduling. PATIENT: No, no-I have to make some-next is 19?
COUNSELOR: Right, in fact the 19th I have something going on that is taking me out of town. So that I probably won't be able to see you until 5:00 anyway on the 19th.
PATIENT: Okay, what about-like that day after, the Friday?
COUNSELOR: Fridays I'm not in the office. Typically, let's seeI'm here on Wednesdays and Thursdays.
PATIENT: Okay, okay.
COUNSELOR: So we could do the 19th at 5:00.
PATIENT: Okay, sounds good.
COUNSELOR: Is that okay?
PATIENT: Uhm-hm.
COUNSELOR: Now let me just ask you this before we go. I know you talk about feeling lonely and feeling sad. And just wanted to know, have you had any thoughts of hurting yourself?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: Or harming yourself? Any-because sometimes when people feel lonely and sad, they think about how life would be if they weren't here.
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: Has that ever crossed your mind?
PATIENT: No, don't worry.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:34:52.2) Has it ever crossed your mind before? Have you ever thought about s
PATIENT: Yeah, but a long time ago, and that's why I started to go to therapy. I was 14. I went to therapy for, I guess, like four or five years. And then my therapist became ill. She had renal failure, so it was really bad.
COUNSELOR: Oh.
PATIENT: Oh well. But I started going to someone else. And, yeah. And then I came here. Yeah, and the last three years I went to therapy-is what, is because (inaudible at 0:35:26.5). My brother-he isn't-he does drugs (ph). Is that the way you say it? So there was a lot of conflict in my house. And I used to be the only one who'd go to the therapist because he was doing drugs. I mean, for me, it's not awful. I enjoy it. I like being able to tell someone why it's happening.
COUNSELOR: Sure. Okay, so, therapy from your culture? Is it acceptable to see a therapist?
about:srcdoc Page 12 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
PATIENT: Yeah, at least-I don't know if in other cities in Portugal and for other people? But from the city I'm from, from the social group that I'm from, yeah, so. No, I mean I spend my-all adolescence going twice to therapy, like twice a week. And everybody in my school used to do it. [0:36:15.6]
COUNSELOR: Okay, okay. Because I know some cultures don't- PATIENT: I don't know if for here-why here is not that popular. COUNSELOR: Does your roommate know that you're seeking help now? PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Yeah, I told her I was going-I called. I don't know if I told I had the appointment today, but. COUNSELOR: Now what's your roommate's name?
PATIENT: Diana.
COUNSELOR: Diana. Okay. Okay so you haven't had thoughts of harming yourself?
PATIENT: No, no, no. Don't worry.
COUNSELOR: Okay well I mean-I just wanted to make sure.
PATIENT: No, that's why I called. Because I was not feeling well, so. I was like before I start getting crazy. PATIENT: Okay. So let me give you a card. We said next Thursday at 5:00.
COUNSELOR: Okay, so Thursday at 5:00 PM. Okay.
PATIENT: So if at any point-
COUNSELOR: Is that the way you say your name? Betty?
PATIENT: Betty.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, Betty. Okay, Marta, it was a pleasure meeting you.
END TRANSCRIPT
TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Third consult. Marta Quinn. October 25th. Betty Johnson.
PATIENT: Yeah, I'm feeling better. I think it's been really helpful to come here and not only tell you what
  about:srcdoc Page 13 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
how I feel. But being able to think what-how I'm feeling and why I'm feeling like that so.
COUNSELOR: Kind of think out loud and process your thoughts. Talk about loud even if... You don't necessarily need a person to respond to you but just to hear you own thoughts.
PATIENT: Yeah, that's... Yeah, I've been feeling better. Should I keep telling the story?
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I'm curious too. Help me understand what is it like fro you-coming from Portugal. I'm wondering why you're here in the States and on campus. Do you have any attachments to the Portuguese community here or the Spanish speaking community here? How does that work for you? [0:01:17.3]
PATIENT: When I got here, I stayed at a friend of my father's. My dad works in the Police department in Portugal and there was a guy that worked there and was doing a master's here. He was three years older than me. So my dad put me in contact with him. So when I got to Whitehall, he was Portuguese and-from Portugal.
His neighbor was from Portugal too, the guy doing a PhD. In Education, I think yeah. So Pedros, and Yonathan-Yonathan is the guy I lived with-Pedros and Pedros' girlfriend, Sara. She lives in Berkley, but yeah, she used to come a lot to Whitehall during the weekends. There was a girl who lived right next from Pedros and she was from Amora. The city I was born in Portugal.
COUNSELOR: What's the name of the city? [0:02:18.0]
PATIENT: I was born in Amora. A-M-O-R-A. Amora. I don't know how you say it. So they met her randomly. I don't know how they met. And there was another girl from Spain. So it was like a oh, and my ex- boyfriend Jose. He met Pedro and Yonathan through some other person, some Portuguese yeah. When we see-when we hear that there are some other people, since it's really small? Not a lot of people. So we try to make a group.
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: So we were really integrated. And this was March of 2005. So it was a tight group, like hanging out. I started dating Jose. But I still had a lot of friends from school. American, speaking English. I have always thought and keep thinking that for-to be able to fit in a culture you need to speak the language quite well. And I would say pretty well but I'm not in that moment yet. I have to improve more. And another culture, you know how they are. So I always try to keep like I was really interested in keeping a Portuguese group of friends
COUNSELOR: And your American...
PATIENT: And my American group of friends. And they were from the program. The PhD, they were all PhD students. So it was really-and one of them-one of my best friend's, my lab mate, Christina. So it it was really like-it was really good for me. I had the Portugal support but my friends from school that I'd go and have lunch with. That I'd have pot lucks and parties and so they're like American girls or Asian girls. But we have to speak in English. So I was really happy to have that because a lot of these Portugal people, they only hang out with Latin American people?
So their English was not good-as good as some others and... And they didn't know a lot of things about
about:srcdoc Page 14 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
Whitehall. I have friends that are from another part of Michigan. So I have been to their houses and spent weekends with their families. I think I have learned a lot about the Midwest culture. Which makes me really happy. I really enjoy learning about other cultures. Understanding-that helps me understand how people in Portugal are. You know, when you're able to compare? [0:05:16.4]
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: You get to feel differences. It's hard because it's really different. The things that are ally important in Portugal. Here, they're not.
COUNSELOR: Like you were telling me before about time and relationships. (crosstalk)
PATIENT: Like family, family, family. Yeah, I know. People here, they go to different cities and if your parents live in Michigan, it doesn't mean you're going to live in Michigan. And you move to the west coast and you see them two, three times a year.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: That in Portugal it's really weird. People don't do that. That was good to know to learn and that was also good because I didn't feel I was abandoned my family. I see that a lot of girls here my age they're doing the PhD, they move away from their parents. They, what else-they're independent. Like of course, if you need money because you're struggling with your debt.
You can ask them if they can help you. But it doesn't mean you're economically dependent. You don't depend on your parents. So that was really good. I get to live by myself, being independent, change my relationship with my parents. [0:06:39.9]
COUNSELOR: Right, Americans would have-if you would have been Portuguese and had that type of tension that you described for me in the last session, it would have been it seems like that would've been really stressful for you.
PATIENT: It was really stressful. Right now I can tell them this is what I think and I think you should do this. Please don't I'm not at your clinics. Don't come and tell me all the bad things. But exactly. I can do that because I don't (inaudible at 0:07:07.8). So it's not like they-sometimes I've seen with my parents in Portugal, they don't live with their parents. A lot of people do it. Or some people still live with their parents.
So if their parents get mad, how are you going to ask them for money? Or like you're still having a lot of fights with your parents about money (ph), living together and money issues. So it's very it's easy... easier to handle the thing with my brother and friends if I'm outside the house. And when your parents give you all the money and all the support, they it's really easy for them to manipulate you.
COUNSELOR: So like in a sense you'd [still have to obey] (ph) if you're mad at them or...
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: They'll tell you. "We don't want you to go there. We don't need the money." Your hands are tied.
about:srcdoc Page 15 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
COUNSELOR: So you're enjoying this independence?
PATIENT: It's hard some-I feel really lonely sometimes. But it's good. I know I have to-I know I have to live this. And, but after I adapt, after I get-how do you say that? After a little bit I will be able to enjoy more. Right now, I enjoy it's 11:00. I just want to go to the and buy a beer. If you live with your parents, it's a whole thing to leave the house at midnight or...
COUNSELOR: [Or whenever.] (ph)
PATIENT: Or like I have to go to the library at 1:00 am, I don't know. Whatever. Yeah, so that independence is really good. You don't have to tell everyone where they're going or ask for their permission to go to.
COUNSELOR: Isn't there a source in there for for you? PATIENT: Like?
COUNSELOR: On the one hand, this independence is liberating, it's freeing, you're enjoying being able to go and do. But is there a source of conflict? Is there some negative feeling?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: Or negative thoughts you have about it.
PATIENT: No, never. I've been always independent compared to Portuguese style of living. I've been independent. I mean, yeah. I've always tried to be independent.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:09:49.6)
PATIENT: Be my style. But still you get a lot of restrictions. But here, you can do whatever you want. So take care of yourself. No, I mean it's really good. The only thing-the only part I don't like is being so far away. That it takes me a whole day and one thousand dollars to get it-to see my family. I would love them to be two hours away and two hundred dollars. That's a-that's a really bad part.
It's so far and sometimes-Yeah, I would love to see them twice a year or three times a year, but it's a lot of money. That part, I don't, I don't like it that much. I don't like the idea of being so far away. A whole day of traveling, changing planes. A lot of money. And since I'm a student, it's hard to save, one thousand dollars to get a ticket. And I don't like to ask them for money, for a ticket. (ph)
COUNSELOR: Your parents.
PATIENT: They offer-they offer to give me money for a ticket and I say Oh, I'll just-we'll see. We'll figure it out. If I need money, and I'm not able to save it, I'll ask you guys for money then. [0:11:09.2]
COUNSELOR: When-when you think about your family's economic status in Portugal, where where do you stand?
PATIENT: I well-they're not the richest people in Portugal, but economically we're in high class. COUNSELOR: And has that been the case for as long as you can remember? Was there ever a change in
about:srcdoc Page 16 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
economic status?
PATIENT: I guess at the begin-my parents were-I guess there was a change. When we lived in Amora, the other city where I was born, we had money but we didn't have a lot of money. Yeah, there was a change but it was not that big.
COUNSELOR: Okay, so pretty much you guys have always lived in a higher class (inaudible at 0:12:08.0).
PATIENT: Yeah. And that was another thing that when I-oh well, I went to a public college in Portugal so I got to hang out with people from-like really, really poor people. I mean, not American poor Portuguese poor. You know that's-someone high class in the United States has a lot of money. Tons, a lot more money than someone in a higher class in Portugal. And someone poor in Portugal is really, really poor. It's not like "Oh, I'll go run by McDonald's because I don't have anything else."
Money to buy anything else, no. In Portugal, it's poor, poor. So it was like-it was like for me to be able to see how the world is. And because I went to a private school, a Catholic private school. It was like a bubble. Everybody has a car. Everybody talks three-can speak in three different languages. Everybody travels Europe and travels to Miami. And you go out-and then you go to college and then it's like "Oh my God. There are people that don't have money for lunch."
COUNSELOR: Sure. [0:13:23.7]
PATIENT: That was a hard, a hard thing for me. And but I think learned and it was really good. COUNSELOR: What was hard about it, like...?
PATIENT: The people didn't like me. They were rejecting me all the time. I was a really good student. I used to study a lot. I think in my class, I was the only one having a car. That I mean that's how-in the United States, everybody has a car. Portugal, not everybody has a car. Cars are really expensive. People salaries are lower than here.
So, for example, in my class I was the only one having a car and driving. Everybody has to take the bus and I was driving to school. So from the first day, they didn't like me because they saw I had like, you know like. And then you can tell by the way people dress, the differences, from different class. [0:14:24.8]
I don't think here is bad. The middle class in the United States is really big. And in Portugal it is not, and the poor class is really big. So people didn't like me. And I had really good grades. People hated me. They were saying how I was paying professors for my grades.
COUNSELOR: Oh God. (ph) So how did that affect you? This was in high school, you said, high school? PATIENT: College. In college.
COUNSELOR: College, okay.
PATIENT: Yeah, I went-after I graduated from high school, everybody was the same as me. Private school together, everybody's the same. And then I go to college to a public school and so this public school, public college. You have to apply taking an exam, and if you pass the exam, they it's not like here. It's not like interviews and applications. They just buy the thing-go and take an exam. And if you pass the exam, you'll
about:srcdoc Page 17 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
get into school. They don't care who you are, where you come from.
They don't care about anything. They just care that you are-from one thousand people that applied to the school, maybe 20 or 100 or 200 get in. But since there, there's... so the high class in Lisbon usually go to two different universities. Two private schools, two private universities. I decided I didn't want to go there. What I was-what I wanted to do something related to chemistry and these schools were really bad in chemistry. So I said... [ 0:16:17.3]
COUNSELOR: Now did you have-in Portugal, I'm not sure how it is, but in your family, your culture. How much is the decision to go to school, or the type of school, or what you choose to study. How much of that has to do with your family influence, or how much influence does your family have?
PATIENT: I think they have a lot of influence because usually they're the ones who pay. In higher classes, or middle class. I had a lot of friends. They were they were paying by themselves and they-they'll say like, "If your parents go to college and get education, they will have-they will have a lot of influence in your decision to go to college. They will try to make you go to a good school and..."
COUNSELOR: What about in your case, how about your (inaudible at 0:17:09.8)? (crosstalk)
PATIENT: When I said I wanted to go for something related to chemistry, my dad was really excited. He loves chemistry, he loves math and biology. He's all about science. He was really excited. He was really happy and... He just told me, "Just go for the best college. Where you can get that."
He was like, "I don't care-don't base your decision on other factors-in other departments or in friends. Try to base your decision in the best school. If you want to do..." I don't know. "Whatever you want to study, just go for the place." So that's why I went there. And I-and not a lot of people from my high school applied to this university because they were really afraid of the contact with poor people.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:18:16.3)
PATIENT: So that's why they all go to private universities where they're-there are not enough scholarships in Portugal. If you're a really good high school student here and you don't have money, you will find a scholarship to go to a-wherever. Not like that in Portugal. See you can keep-so if you have money, you go to a private school. But if you don't, you have to go to a public, and try to get it.
COUNSELOR: So let me get this right. You chose not to go to a private school because they weren't good in chemistry.
PATIENT: Yeah, they were not good in chemistry.
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: And people, all they did was party. So I was really afraid. I like to party a lot and I knew that if I were there, I was not going to study at all. Just socialize. My dad, I have friends that were-spent all the how many years just partying and not studying. Then it was a mess. I said, "I'm going for a good chemistry school or a pharmacy." And, in a place where I know I'm not going to be partying all the time. I still have a lot of friends so I don't need to be with them all day.
about:srcdoc Page 18 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
I need to focus on my studies. But it was weird because only five girls from my high school went to my university. It was a-it was boys and girls, but none, any of the boys applied to this university, and only five of us went there of my people that graduated in my class in high school. That-just to wrap up. That was good because I get to-I got to see how different people were and it was bad because no one was like me at the beginning. But oh well, after five years, they were like me.
COUNSELOR: Okay, so it took five years? [0:20:17.9] PATIENT: I would say four years.
COUNSELOR: Really?
PATIENT: It took-the majority of the-I had my friends, I had five, six friends that were really good friends. But-and then the circles that are drawn. So I used to invite all of them to my house to have lunch or whatever. (laughs) And it was really fun. So the end, we were really-I had a lot of friends. But at the beginning, yeah, I didn't have any. They all hated me.
COUNSELOR: How did you cope then, another time when you didn't have as many friends, and- PATIENT: How did I, sorry?
COUNSELOR: Cope with that? You didn't have friends, and you thought that they hated you. And they were treating you differently and some of those things. [0:21:01.4]
PATIENT: I didn't-I mean, I didn't. How do you say, like-I didn't talk to them. There was a lot of gossip. I was like, ah, just forget about it. It's hard but I just cannot go and tell them, "I'm not like that."
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: I just have to show them.
COUNSELOR: So I'm curious, Marta. In thinking about stress and how it relates to your life. How-what resources do you use to cope with difficult situations, difficult times? You know, because you talk about a series of difficult situations, in your life.
PATIENT: What do I do? Well I usually go to therapy. Cry, and talk with my friends. COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: That's why I cry so much. I always (laughs) focus on my feelings and I'm so bad. I cry with the movies, I cry with everything. [0:22:00.7]
COUNSELOR: What's-what's bad about that?
PATIENT: No, I just-I just think it's funny. I cry, I mean, I cry all the time. There's-have you seen the TV commercial about the cancer? The... what's it... the Susan G. Komen race? And you train? So they have the commercial about it, and there were people saying-I'm going to start crying. "I've been doing it..." Or "I'm running for my mother" or something like that. So everything time they show that commercial, I cry. I'm like, "Oh my God", this cannot be true. (laughs)
about:srcdoc Page 19 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
COUNSELOR: Why do you think you cry about them? [Or whatever makes you cry.] (ph)
PATIENT: Well, the fact that my mother had it. I guess that-I don't know, I cry for everything. I see a kid with-and this has been forever. Every time I see a kid with Down's Syndrome, I cry. And if I see a TV commercial with kids with Down's Syndrome, I cry. And this has been forever. I cry for I don't know what. [0:23:17.8]
COUNSELOR: Cancer seems to be theme that I'm hearing, because you talked about your mom-she had breast cancer. They were able to catch it?
PATIENT: Yeah, they were. Really...
COUNSELOR: Okay. So the cancer with your mom, and you wanted to study cancer or study more-were you interested?
PATIENT: Yeah, but I don't think that-well, perhaps in my subconscious. But I don't I just think that. I mean, I don't want to study cancer because of mya lot of-because, well yeah, a lot of people have it. But not because my mother had it. I-oh well, how do you say it. But it's because it's really interesting and it's a difficult thing. And I've been in contact with it. I haven't been in contact with other different... yeah, illness. Yeah, I guess there has to be a connection.
COUNSELOR: Maybe, think that through but just wanted to explore. Because you talked about another significant person who had cancer too. I was wondering (inaudible at 0:24:27.9)
PATIENT: Yeah, a lot of people. My granddad, my grandfather had bone cancer. My grandmother had can-I think they-like a lot of people in my-my uncle died from cancer. A lot of people. I've met a lot of people who've died from cancer.
COUNSELOR: How about your therapist? Did your therapist die from cancer? PATIENT: She did. She died from cancer in the stomach, too.
COUNSELOR: There is something to explore because a lot of times, what happens is that the things that we become interested in. There's something-there's something (ph) underneath our motivation for one. (ph)
PATIENT: Yeah, I guess-other decisions that haven't been. I was talking about coming here. Okay, the difference in my social classes here and there, in Portugal.
COUNSELOR: So any other ways that you cope with the-
PATIENT: Ah, the stress.
COUNSELOR: The stress, yeah. [You said all different] (ph)
PATIENT: Well, I eat a lot of chocolate. I'm a chocolate addict. [0:25:51.5]
COUNSELOR: Okay. A chocolate addict, you use that loosely, or have you been diagnosed as a...? PATIENT: No, no, no. I mean I I've been struggling with it. Oh, and here, you see all these candy stores.
about:srcdoc Page 20 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
(laughter)
PATIENT: But I've been like that all my life. I remember I've loved chocolate since I was... you know, there's people that like can-hard candy, sugar candy. I love chocolate. So much. And here, oh.
COUNSELOR: So when you're stressed... (inaudible at 0:26:25.8)
PATIENT: Yeah and I guess... I been eating it a lot here. I gained 20 pounds since I came from Portugal. COUNSELOR: Oh really.
PATIENT: Well-two things. Food here, really processed. I don't-like in Portugal, I didn't have to cook. There was a lady in my house who cooked. So we cooked really well. She cooked really well. Delicious and always really healthy. Nothing processed. There was always like-a little bit of rice. A lot of vegetables, meat and different stuff, but and a little bit of carbohydrates.
So I never had to worry about what I was buying for food and what I was eating and how many calories. That part of my life was... Yeah, that part of my life was-somebody took care of it, so it was controlled and. There is a lot of pressure about weight in Portugal. Like in Portugal, I would be fat.
COUNSELOR: Really, okay.
PATIENT: And I come here, it's like "Oh my God" I'm not fat. So this I really cool. (laughter)
PATIENT: Yeah, so there's a lot of pressure in Portugal for people's weight and they always tell you how, "yeah, you're fat." Not in a bad way, but "Oh, you have to diet." So it's a pain to go back every December, because after the first time, the winter, I ate a lot because I'm really cold. So I eat a lot of chocolate. And then shoo-I go, and so I go there and they're like "You need to lose weight."
(laughter)
PATIENT: But that's how-that's how it is in Portugal. So I never care about my weight. I used to diet. I used to stop eating candy or chocolate. So that was my diet. Like, "oh, I'm not going to eat chocolate for three weeks." And that was like, aah, chocolate. But then I came here and I was in charge of my food, my groceries. Making food for myself and I'd never had to cook before. So it's a mess. I've been trying to improve-and then in the school we get lunches, with a lot of interesting people, like speakers and...
COUNSELOR: Brown bag lunches and things or... [0:28:54.5]
PATIENT: And also like journal clubs, and all they have is pizza. I used to eat pizza, let's say, once a month? You know, nothing but.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:29:05.7)
PATIENT: American food in Portugal is really expensive. McDonald's is super expensive. So you'd never think, "Oh, I'm going to eat McDonald's because it's cheap." Or "I never-there's not McDonald's around". Sometimes I have three dollars. Well I'm going to go to one. There, it's really expensive. So it's cheaper to eat
about:srcdoc Page 21 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
healthier food than to eat... COUNSELOR: Fast food.
PATIENT: Fast food and things that come, like in frozen bags in the supermarket are really expensive compared to healthy food. So in your house, no one will ever-it's cheaper to buy meat and potatoes and rice, and pay someone to do it than to buy all the frozen foods. Those boxes-there was a lot of good food. Good food comes in a box. Or like the soup comes in a can. We don't have soups in a can.
COUNSELOR: Oh, okay. [0:30:00.5]
PATIENT: Sometimes when you have the envelopes, like powder, you mix with milk or water.
(crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:30:10.0)
PATIENT: They usually make the soup-they just cook the carrots and the tomatoes. And then you get home at 7:00 and there's your dinner.
(laughter)
PATIENT: So that part has been a mess here. And I guess for a lot of people at-I have a lot of friends that they'd say-coming here, they gain weight. It's hard to it's hard to... and your house, you have someone that takes care of your things. Like in my house is Anita, and she's always like, "Oh, you need to eat this." or "Are you hungry?" or-she's really taking... So you never care about it.
You never care about how many calories you eat or... People care about weight, but the good thing is that there's a lot of good food. The bad part has been a mess here. And I never ate chips before. And here all I crave is tortilla chips.
(laughter)
And the bread. The bread here is so good. And that's the problem. The food here tastes so good.
COUNSELOR: Tastes better? Or tastes good in some way?
PATIENT: Here? It is so good. Oh my God, the desserts here. And my lab mate-she bakes. And her way to relieve the stress is bake.
COUNSELOR: Is baking. (laughs)
PATIENT: But she doesn't eat it. No no no. and she comes to the lab with this big smile. "Marta, I've made brownies for you." And I'm like, "No, don't come with this." And she knows that I love dark chocolate. So she always puts chocolate, dark chocolate garnish on the on the these frostings and... So that part makes me a little bit, anxious. And my ex-boyfriend was really about-"You're so fat. You need to lose weight." And I hated that.
COUNSELOR: How did that make you feel when he said you needed (inaudible at 0:32:14.3).
about:srcdoc Page 22 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
PATIENT: Oh, because he was fat too. That was the funny part. If someone who's really skinny tells me, "Marta, you're fat." I'll just-"Ah, you're right. I'm eating a lot." But someone that's is in the same condition. He lived in Portugal and he came here. He gained weight here. He telling me that I was gaining a lot of weight. I was like, "I mean, you don't have any right to tell me this." (laughs)
COUNSELOR: Right. So that upset you?
PATIENT: Yeah, I mean, yeah. I was like...
COUNSELOR: What, I mean what did you do about that? Or do about...
PATIENT: I broke up with him.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: But not about that. I mean, things were really bad. He didn't like me. And it was a good thing we broke up.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:33:05.0) PATIENT: Hmm?
COUNSELOR: I remember you telling me that.
PATIENT: It was hard. It was hard to be lonely because I started dating him after 15 days of coming to Whitehall. So I was never alone in Whitehall. I was always with him. But I'm thinking about it, and that was the best decision I've ever, sort of-it was hard, three weeks, four weeks, but now I'm happy. I don't need him. I don't need someone that cannot love me, I'm sorry.
COUNSELOR: Definitely.
PATIENT: I think it was really good. And people that-people in my family's like, "Are you upset?" and I'm like, "No." I was sad at the beginning, but now-I'm perfect with it.
COUNSELOR: What's... what's helped you bounce back the way that you have? Or to no longer be sad about it, to be happy about it?
PATIENT: Right now, that I don't have to deal with him. It's really sad when you are with someone that-that shows no interested, interest. I was there and he's like, "I cannot... I'm..." You know, how do you say. I'm a heavy load for you. Feeling that someone doesn't like you because they have to...
COUNSELOR: Makes you feel burdensome? [0:34:32.1]
PATIENT: Yeah, and I was I was trying a lot of things to... I don't know how to cook. There is a lot of girls that know how to cook and how to bake. I'm not one of those, I'm sorry. (laughs) And he was always complaining about the way I cooked or the way I dressed. I'm working a lot. I work. Sneakers, jeans, and t- shirt. I don't see any harm. (ph) And he's always like, "Oh, look at the way you're dressed today."
But because-and with him that's a Portuguese cultural thing because people they'll take... They care a lot
about:srcdoc Page 23 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
about the way you look, the way you-the way you dress. If you're fat or not. If you have fancy shoes or not. And the environment that we're in now. No one cares, it's perfect. I can focus on my assignments. I don't need to... [0:35:27.2]
COUNSELOR: Was that true of, of other relationships you're in, where the guy would criticize you for whatever reason?
PATIENT: In Portugal.
COUNSELOR: Uhm-hm, yeah.
PATIENT: Yeah, I guess, all guys are... I see my dad, and my dad is the same thing with my mom. All day, telling her the shirt's too tight. But that's how that's why I tell you. That's a very Portuguese thing. I realize that I don't have to deal with it anymore. And Jose was also trying to... Oh one day he told me he wanted us to live together, to move into an apartment? So I was really like "Wooo!" and happy and excited about it, thinking perhaps in one year we would be able to. And then he-two weeks later, he just fuck up. He was like, "I didn't say that."
And I was like, "What? You said that." And it's not a because I didn't understand him. Because we speak the same. We're from the same place. He's like, "No, I never said that. I said it would be cheaper if we lived together." And I'm like, "No, you said that it would be good to live together." And it means... so he didn't want that. And he was looking for jobs when he graduated from Michigan, from the Master's. And he never even said anything about... like, "If I move away, what are we going to do?" He never cared.
He found a job in Whitehall. It was the only thing he found. Oh he found another one, in the middle of Ohio but it paid less. So that's why he stayed in Whitehall. But he never think, thought about what we were going to do. Were we going to... start, stop seeing each other.
COUNSELOR: And how long were you guys together? [0:37:35.9] PATIENT: One and a half years.
COUNSELOR: So one and a half years that you were together. And how long-and or how far into the relationship was he talking about moving in or-
PATIENT: No, just a couple months ago. COUNSELOR: Oh okay.
PATIENT: One month ago. COUNSELOR: Okay, okay.
PATIENT: Two months ago, yeah. COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Yeah, no, I mean...
about:srcdoc
Page 24 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
COUNSELOR: Well it sounds that concerns you that he's graduating, he's not making any verbalizations or plans about...
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: No no no no no. It was not a-it was not about making plans. Just like sit down and say, "Okay so if I found a job somewhere else, we can try seeing still dating, or just stop dating." He never-It was like-it was not that he w-"I don't want to get married. I need to get into school and graduate form school. I have five years in front of me and I need to focus on that. My plans are not getting married. My plans are not... I just hated that he would say... he would say something like "Let's move in together." And then he'd say "Look, I didn't say that."
COUNSELOR: "I didn't say that." [0:38:45.7]
PATIENT: Or the thing that he was looking for jobs and never even wanted to talk about it. Because I asked him, "What are we going to do?" and he's like, "I don't want to talk about it."
COUNSELOR: He'll tell you he didn't want to talk about it. PATIENT: No. And the other-and the other thing was COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:39:10.4)
PATIENT: Yeah, he never-he would have problems with his work. And he wouldn't, never say-and it's like, "What is, what is wrong with you?" and he's like "I just have problems. I don't want to get involved. I don't want to get you involved with it."
COUNSELOR: It seems like if you were an important part of his life...
PATIENT: No, I was not.
COUNSELOR: He would've included you or...
PATIENT: Yeah, in his stakes (ph), he didn't. He was tired of dating me and he never told me. I had to go and find out in the e-mail.
COUNSELOR: Okay. So let me ask you this, Marta. What about your relationships before Jose, before coming to...
PATIENT: I had a boyfriend for a long time. For four years. And then I decided I didn't want to stay with him anymore. I graduated from coll-I graduated and he was still.. he had one year left, or one and a half years left to graduate. He was in another thing. He cheated on me a couple of times. And the last time he cheated on me, and I tried to forgive him. Forgive him. And I couldn't. So that's why I broke up with him. Because I couldn't forgive him about that. And I was not we were in there for-
COUNSELOR: Different things?
PATIENT: He was like-yeah, like cheating on me. (laughs) And I didn't want to have that for my life. So that's why I broke up with him and after that I dated a couple of guys. Had fun. Party, and... But I... and I
about:srcdoc Page 25 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
started dating someone before I was going to come to Whitehall and then we stopped dating when I came here so.... But it was not like. There was nothing serious in between my boyfriend from-that I dated while I was in college and here. [0:41:08.8]
COUNSELOR: And what was his name?
PATIENT: Joshua.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: J-O-S-H-U-A.
COUNSELOR: That's a long time to be in a relationship with someone-four years?
PATIENT: Yeah, we were. And we were one year together, then we broke up. Because he left me for another girl. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: And after-
COUNSELOR: You laugh about that, right? PATIENT: Hm?
COUNSELOR: You laugh...
PATIENT: Oh, because I don't know if I would do it again. I think I was blind with me. I was-I really liked him for a long time before he even started to... We were in the same high school. We were sitting-he was in... he used to sit behind me. I was in love with him. And he never cared. (laughs) After a couple of after a year he started-we started dating and then he left me for another girl. Then I had a another boyfriend but then we came back together.
COUNSELOR: Whose idea was it to come back together?
PATIENT: His. Mine. I don't know. Both. Whatever. But I was still in love with him. I was hanging out with the other guy, but I was still in love with him. And, yeah. So we were together for a year, then 8 months. A year but we were not together and then for four years. And then I started dating a couple of guys and then I came to Michigan. [0:42:52.7]
COUNSELOR: So how did you cope with the break up with Jose? How did you handle that? PATIENT: Between Jose-no, after Jose or...?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: In these four weeks?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, how-how did you-not Jose, Joshua. Yeah, Joshua. How did you handle the break up?
about:srcdoc Page 26 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
How did it affect you.
PATIENT: I don't know. I broke up with so many guys before that. I had boyfriends before-were not for a long time but... I don't know, the same way that I always do it. Hang out with my friends. Eat chocolate ice cream.
COUNSELOR: Okay. (inaudible at 0:43:40.2)
PATIENT: Then justI mean. Wait for things to come. My problem with him is that we shared the same friends. So that was hard. That was hard. And the last time-
(crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:43:59.1) about that.
PATIENT: And it's still difficult. Every time we see each other. I'm really good. I talk to him. I still talk to him, and then-but the thing is since... Oh, and after before coming to Whitehall we start, kind of dating again. So things end up really weird. But the thing is, I would never introduce a guy to my girlfriends unless it's a serious boyfriend. And he has never done the same thing.
COUNSELOR: Show (ph) you his friends. [0:44:36.3]
PATIENT: No no no no no. We have the same friends. And we were in the same class in high school. If he's dating a girl, he will-he will not go out with the rest of the group with me. If I'm there. Now that I'm here, it doesn't care-matter. But for example, I went back last December when he was dating a girl? And he never told me. It was like, "Oh, what happened." So but he if I am there, he will not take the girl. Or he would not go out with us. And it's the same thing for me. And it's kind of like code in the group. In the group, like, because there were a lot of people who were dating too. So it happens
(crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: So you guys no longer hang out with the whole group. If you had a boyfriend, you wouldn't bring him.
PATIENT: I was going to bring Jose.
COUNSELOR: Oh you were, you were! Okay.
PATIENT: So I told everyone, you guys are meeting him. They're all like, "What?" and I'm like, "Yes." COUNSELOR: So you were going to break the code.
PATIENT: Yeah. He was important. No, yeah, I mean-Jose-Jose was really important. I thought he-we had a lot of things in common and we were going to last for a long time. But then I realized: the guy doesn't like me. How are we going to... I'm not happy. He doesn't love me. So what I'm doing here. But I am going I was going to introduce him to them, there. (ph) (laughs)
COUNSELOR: Did you think how Joshua was going to respond to that?
about:srcdoc Page 27 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
PATIENT: Oh, they're-they're-no no no. None of them was going to like. (laughs) That's how we all are. We never like the person. After a couple of months, we like.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: One of my friends is-he was dating another girl. He's getting married in December. So last December, he brought her. They live in Spain, so he brought her with him. And we met her. And we were like "Oh, we don't like her." But, well, after a couple of weeks, yeah.
COUNSELOR: It seems like there's that loyalty to the... [0:46:53.3]
PATIENT: And it's bad. It's really bad, because then when it's your turn? They will not like your boyfriend. That was on you. Yeah, oh well. I don't think-I think I did a... I took a good... made a good decision about not being with Jose. I think. I don't think Jose was good. I was stressed. I was sad. I had a lot of anx-I was really anxious.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, so a lot of in a relationship where you felt stressed and sad. (crosstalk)
PATIENT: I know, that has no sense.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:47:32.7)
PATIENT: And there are so many boys outside-out there. So I decided in a couple of weeks I'm going start- have open mind for dating again. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: What's helped you. Why a couple of weeks?
PATIENT: I have two books that I need to read.
COUNSELOR: (laughs) Okay, so you're going to get your books read first.
PATIENT: No, no, no. I've been reading a lot. I have been reading a long time. This amount of books. I read "The Davinci Code" "Angels and Demons" and "Almost There". And there's a couple of books I want to read after that, all about dating. No, you know, like I've never had plan to enjoy what-myself, here in Whitehall. Where I can say, "Okay, some day I'm just going to sit down and read a book. I'm not going to drive to go I'll do this with Jose. And then I'm going to do these groceries and grocery shopping." It's my time.
COUNSELOR: Your time, sure.
PATIENT: I get to clean my house. My house is clean, my house... read books, cook-try to cook.
(audio gap)
PATIENT: Watching movies with them. I had a couple of friends and they always watch what is that? "LOST"? This year is great to them. I was always hanging out with Jose so I never had time to go and...
(crosstalk)
about:srcdoc Page 28 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
COUNSELOR: Enjoy your other relationships.
PATIENT: Sit down and talk for two hours. Watch this show and then talk. I've been liking my time. So-and I said I'm not going to date someone that lives far away, four miles away from Whitehall. I've been saving a lot of money in gas because I always had to drive there. He never..
COUNSELOR: He never came to for you? [0:49:33.3]
PATIENT: No, because I had a roommate and he always said it was annoying for my roommate to come here. And I was like, "Huh? That's weird." Sounds more like it's annoying for you to come.
COUNSELOR: Did you explain that to him? You said that him? Or were you-that's something you were thinking?
PATIENT: No, I told him all the time. It's not annoying for her. She understand. She understands that it's normal if I got there a couple of weekends and you come here. You know, half and half.
COUNSELOR: There's some reciprocity here.
PATIENT: No, he stopped coming. If I always have plans with my friends, I just have-he's like, "Oh I don't feel like driving to Whitehall." It's like, "Okay, Jose, I'll go pick you up and then I'll bring you back tomorrow." Because I was feeling bad because everything.. Half of my friends don't' know him. Haven't met him before. A year and a half, and they never met him. So I was trying to put him-make him go with me to all these dinners and potlucks. And he was like-I was always in love or...
COUNSELOR: What do you think that was about? Did you ever have any thoughts about why he wasn't receptive to being involved in your world?
PATIENT: I don't know and he's been always like that. Because even though we met Portuguese friends with Sara that lives in Berkley, and I was talking to her. She just came back from a trip and I was talking to her. And I told her what happened, she said, "Yeah, I never understood. He was always weird in that sense." They would invite him to do stuff. Even before I came here. And he would always say, "No, I cannot." He didn't want to hang out with a group of people. But he-no, but he had his friends and he used to hang out with his friends. A couple or... Yeah, well.
COUNSELOR: Did you ever have any blaming thoughts? Or thoughts about something what you weren't doing?
PATIENT: No. I did a lot of-
COUNSELOR: You were in, pretty aware of (inaudible at 0:51:48.2) it sounds like.
PATIENT: I did a lot of stuff for him. things that I never did before. I mean, I don't have any-feeling about it. I'm 100 percent sure that if I didn't do things well, I'll try to make things better. You know in that moment, I don't have regrets. No I mean I put a lot of things into that relationship. I was going to introduce him to my friends. (laughs) He didn't want me-I.. yeah. His friends would come to Whitehall and he would introduce me. Hang out with me and then.
PATIENT: But he wouldn't involve you in his world. (inaudible at 0:52:42.4) that's what you're talking about
about:srcdoc Page 29 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
earlier. Even with the interviewing or...
COUNSELOR: Or the work problems or the family or... Yeah, one day he was talking about something that... some kind of typical Portuguese food that they make in his house. And it's like, "Oh!" I said like, "Oh, sounds delicious. I would love to try it." And he's like, "Yeah." And he laughed. And I was like, "Jose, you should invite me." And he was like, "Uh.. I don't know." And I was like, "What?"
COUNSELOR: Do you
PATIENT: And he was always thinking about... Okay, so I'm (inaudible at 0:53:23.4) just before I go. And that is there is also this thing that he was saying that he always thought I wanted to get married with him. And I was like, "No, I don't want to get married with anyone. I need to go to school and study for five years. I don't want to have a husband. I don't have-I don't want to have responsibilities. I don't want to have to take-I don't want to have. I don't want to have to take care of family."
And he was always saying how he wanted to get married, when he was 35, with a 25 year old woman. And I'm like, "Ah." I don't know if we're going to be together, but that's not something I want to hear. What do you want to hear that your boyfriend... I know it's confusing because I said I didn't want to get married but I never... I wanted to stay with him and perhaps get-making things more serious in the future when I finish my PhD, but he was always saying that he wanted to date all other-younger or get married with a younger person.
COUNSELOR: Any particular reason why?
PATIENT: Because his father told him that's what's he's (inaudible at 0:54:48.1) So he was like that. He used to... he would always ask me for help. He was looking for-to buy a condo in Whitehall or buy furniture, whatever. He's like, "h-this house, like this. I will be able to... to what, what is the word he said. Oh the girls will get crazy. And I'm like, "What? I don't care-don't tell me these things."
COUNSELOR: Did you ever make of why he'd say those type of comments in your presence?
PATIENT: I guess he was never strong enough to tell me "I don't want to be with you." But I think by saying those types of things was like his subconscious trying to tell me. That's what I think now. Before, I didn't know why he was saying that crazy because he's Sagittarius, I don't know.
COUNSELOR: So on one hand, it's... he's making comments that seem to push you away, but he's not coming out-he didn't come out and actually say, "I don't want this relationship." And that's when you found the things on the Internet, here on the computer. And kind of made your own (inaudible at 0:56:13.8) Is it enough for me to be aware...
PATIENT: Yeah, to tell myself, you don't have to fight for a good relationship anymore. Just move on.
COUNSELOR: How did you find yourself responding to that, Marta? I'm just curious.
PATIENT: The day I saw that?
COUNSELOR: He's pushing you away with these comments. Did you find yourself distancing yourself or moving (ph) closer?
PATIENT: No. Trying to show him that I was good. I was really good and I would just be more.. more there.
about:srcdoc Page 30 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
Every time he would say... I don't know. Those stupid comments, I would just be a better girlfriend.
COUNSELOR: What there is a time in your life where that relationship pattern mimicked other relationship patterns in your life? Where somebody may have been pushing you away and you felt compelled to be a good person or the better person to show them...
PATIENT: No. Not with the other boyfriends.
COUNSELOR: Think it was with any other male figures in your life? Where you felt on some level you may have been pushed away but you had to prove that-you felt compelled. You have to really prove yourself that you were this good person. You went above and beyond to try to keep that person or to show them that you're good. [0:57:50.7]
PATIENT: I will think about it and tell you next time. But, eh. I will think about it. COUNSELOR: Do you understand what I'm asking you?
PATIENT: Hm?
COUNSELOR: Do you understand what I'm asking you?
PATIENT: Yeah. Because usually you repeat those patterns with different people.
COUNSELOR: Especially if... if you're looking forward to couples, starting a new relationship or starting to date again.
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: I'm just.. No, I'm just open to dating. Right now I don't' want to date anyone.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but that's something just to consider. To look at your relationship patterns and how the dynamics work.
PATIENT: I don't know if I'm too crazy but with my lab mate, we decided it was really good to do a list of the things I really don't like in guys. Because, yeah. To be able to avoid the things that happened. So I don't know if I'm too crazy about it.
COUNSELOR: When you say you don't know if you're too crazy about it, what do you mean? PATIENT: Because I haven't heard anyone that makes a list of the-like a grocery list.
COUNSELOR: What? No. I mean just like we'd be talking picking not people or schools and inanimate objects and things, but like with schools or if you're looking for a certain thing, you may make a list of what you're looking for or what you don't want and then we have some (inaudible at 0:59:15.9), you can evaluate that, based on your list. So with relationships, I think that's a good idea to make a list of what you are looking, what you don't want ahead of time. Like without being in a relationship, without being with anybody.
PATIENT: That's what I'm doing.
about:srcdoc Page 31 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
COUNSELOR: Right now when you're objective. You know, and kind of...
PATIENT: and I don't' know if that's different with women and Portugal and here. But when I come here, I saw that all my friends, they have a type of guy. Oh, I want to date tall guys. I have Asian guys or black guys or white guys. They have to be over 5'11. And all my friends are like that. Or they have to be in grad school or they have to be working. Different types of things so they have to be muscular or have to skinny or like bald guys. You know, like bald.
And I was like "You know, we don't do that." And I think that even though if things don't happen, I think that's pro liberating. When you're the one... Portugal is like a meat market. You're there, and the guy picks you up. Well, not picks you up but he's the one who decides you're good. You decide if you like him or not but you don't have the standards. If you look at my boyfriends, it's like tall, short, dark skin, white, long, blond, blue-eyed. Well, all sorts of different types. Different engineers, biologist. All these different things.
COUNSELOR: What about the qualities? Because I think what you're describing physical qualities and physical traits, right? But what about the qualities, of the way that they treat you or are there any common things? (ph)
PATIENT: I guess those things, yeah. I guess about the way they treat you. Yeah, of course. I wouldn't date a guy that... No, but I don't have any stan-I know when someone is good or someone is not. But I don't have standards. But I don't know, it's like I see people here and they have standards. Oh if the guy doesn't open my door, I just don't' date him. Or one of my friends, if the guy smokes, I'm not going to date a guy. But I just see that they're-they look so independent and they look like they're the ones who choose. And I'm just like, well, that's not like that in Portugal.
COUNSELOR: All right, the man chooses. Because you still have a choice.
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: Yeah, of course, I mean, yeah it's like a-
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 1:02:05.3) be chosen, I guess. (laughs)
PATIENT: No no no no. But I mean like... if you've ever heard the girls talking about-
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 1:02:11.2) you're still, and you don't' do the chasing.
PATIENT: I guess I did. No, you know like-what I mean is you don't have the list. The list of the things you like or you don't like.
COUNSELOR: So how do you judge if you... if a guy approaches you, like saying... If a guy approaches you and says, "You're good, I want to be with you." How do you..?
PATIENT: I would say I... if you have some kind of attraction for the guy. But it's just-I see that here, that people have all these parameters. It's like a binary list. Has it, doesn't have. Has it, doesn't have. There's no "Well, if you like him."
COUNSELOR: So how do you think creating this list will be beneficial or not.
about:srcdoc Page 32 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
PATIENT: I just [have to write one.] (ph) (crosstalk)
PATIENT: No no no, but I think about that they...for example, I meant I don't' want to date someone that lives in another city. I don't' want to commute to Detroit every weekend. Or having the same fight about commuting. He doesn't' want to hang out with my friends. Or something like that. I want someone that... wants to hang out with me, too. And my friends.
PATIENT: So that would be something that you'd be looking for, right? Someone who shows an interest in you. [1:03:39.9]
COUNSELOR: And that's a cultural thing, too. It's... in my generation, I don't know if that's (inaudible at 1:03:48.5), guys that are a little bit older than me are... You always see that there's a group of guys and the girls that they're dating. And they have a couple of friends that... you always hang out with your boyfriend and their friends.
COUNSELOR: And not...
PATIENT: It doesn't happen to be like I told you, my friends are very special. We fight a lot about the other girls or boys that come into the group. But this is how usually it is in Portugal. So that's perhaps Jose, too. That's how it is.
COUNSELOR: So you're supposed to hang out with his friends.
PATIENT: And then you're supposed to friends with their other girlfriends.
COUNSELOR: Oh, okay.
PATIENT: You see, like...
COUNSELOR: Okay, it's something that's expected.
PATIENT: And then one of them breaks up with the girl. The girl leaves. There comes some other. The group is still the same. And there. Yeah. So that's a cultural thing. But yeah, I don't want anyone like that.
COUNSELOR: Okay, well, you know-it's important for you to be at peace about the person you're with, because you're the person who (laughs) has to be with them.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Thank you for sharing so much as you did. PATIENT: Thank you very much
COUNSELOR: It's definitely helpful to give me some perspective. Because here you are, two cultures. Or you have your own culture, and the in (ph) culture. Then it helps me understand how... How it is-it just helps me understand you better to see how your viewpoint is in the two cultures. So you told me a lot of that information.
about:srcdoc Page 33 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
PATIENT: Thanks.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Did you want to come back next week?
PATIENT: But the only one I'm going to be here is Friday. Can you do it on Friday?
COUNSELOR: You won't be here Wednesday? You won't be here-but you'll be (inaudible at 1:05:46.8) Friday?
PATIENT: Yeah, the only day I'm going to be here is on Friday. Because I'm leaving on a Sunday and coming back on Thursday night.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Is that going to be okay for you to come on Friday? PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Friday the third.
COUNSELOR: Yep, the third. Let's do noon.
PATIENT: Do I have to go and fill out the application?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, (inaudible at 1:06:10.0).
PATIENT: (inaudible 1:06:13.8)
COUNSELOR: This isn't my card, first of all. I'll (ph) write your appointment on it. PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: So let me take you up front and we'll show you what you need to do. PATIENT: Okay, thank you very much.
END TRANSCRIPT
TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: November 3. MP. Consultation. Betty Johnson. PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, so how are you?
PATIENT: Good. Tired. It was a long week.
  about:srcdoc
Page 34 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
COUNSELOR: So you went to a conference?
PATIENT: I had two conferences. One that went from Thursday to Saturday and the other one from Sunday to Thursday.
COUNSELOR: Oh! I didn't realize it was two conferences.
PATIENT: Uh-huh. Yeah, the first one was here in Whitehall. And the other one was...
COUNSELOR: In Tallahassee.
PATIENT: In Tallahassee. And now I cannot work. I cannot even think. A lot of these conferences are more about connections and meeting people and showing your work than learning any science. More like...
COUNSELOR: Networking.
PATIENT: So they all have networking. So they all have tons of receptions. Tons of dinners. Tons of lunches. Going out with people. Everyone is going to bed 1:30 and then waking up at 6:00 am for-I don't know how many days.
(crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:01:26.7)
PATIENT: I'm done.
COUNSELOR: Oh wow.
PATIENT: I need to sleep. Oh yeah.
COUNSELOR: have you had a chance to get any rest? Or...
PATIENT: No, I got in yesterday at 11:30? Well, yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Yeah, I slept eight hours but I still need to recover from that.
COUNSELOR: To recover from that.
PATIENT: It was a really nice. I met a lot of nice people from different industries. And from different schools that I want to apply. I introduced myself to everyone.
COUNSELOR: Oh well, good!
PATIENT: That's something I'm learning for me. In Portugal, you don't go in and introduce yourself. It's not that common. But I don't know if it's because it's in the Midwest and it's real easy. I don't know. I'm used to talking in the line with someone. I introduced myself to a lot of professors from different universities that I want to go to. And I tell them, "You know, I am not like them."
about:srcdoc Page 35 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
COUNSELOR: "Keep my name and my face in your mind." (laughs)
PATIENT: Especially because I did really bad at the GRE at the level bad. Very very bad. But I got a really good TOEFL. You know the TOEFL is for the English. So I'm afraid if they see that GRE, they're going to see that this girl can't even say her name in English. So I had to make sure that everyone knew that I could understand the language. I could express my what I know and what I want to do. So that's why it was important for me to go up to all the receptions and go out at night. But I'm so tired.
COUNSELOR: So what kind of pressure was that like? To feel like you had to introduce yourself to everybody...
PATIENT: No, I'm really social. [0:03:09.6] COUNSELOR: Oh, okay, okay. So it was...
PATIENT: It was good. I liked it a lot. And I know-I knew I needed-I need to do it. I was really sad when I got my GRE scores. It was like, this sucks because I've been-I studied for a whole year. I learned a lot of words. I got to read the paper every day. I read the Time Magazine once a week. I put a lot of effort to learning English and talking to people. And the GRE is the worst thing ever.
COUNSELOR: How did you cope with the GRE score when you got it back?
PATIENT: How what, you say?
COUNSELOR: How did you cope with finding out that you didn't do as well as you would've liked?
PATIENT: I cried a lot. And I felt really depressed. But when I talked to my boss here in Michigan, he's like, "Don't worry. You'll get into Michigan. Don't worry about the scores." So that was good-I needed that. So at least I could stay here.
COUNSELOR: Sure. Now [0:04:08.5]
PATIENT: I felt so bad. I felt so, so bad.
COUNSELOR: I can imagine. Especially if you put so much effort into it, so much studying into it.
PATIENT: And then people that cannot even say 'hello', they get 600, 650. There's a girl in our med lab that got 750 on the verbal part of the GRE which is-this is over 800. Everyone else had to take it too. And I'm like, "This girl can't really say her name in English." You cannot talk to her. She doesn't understand any English.
COUNSELOR: Oh wow.
PATIENT: But she got 6-not 750, and I'm like... You know, you start feeling like you're the stupid one in the hallway. I think-but then it's up to some of my friends. They are Portuguese and they are doing their PhDs here and master's in other areas. They got the same bad GRE scores, in the English part.
COUNSELOR: You guys know who to compare yourself to and realize it wasn't...
about:srcdoc Page 36 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
PATIENT: I think it was... yeah. I think having people that are as-they did as bad as you on the GRE, the verbal part. My ex-boyfriend, Jose? He got a 440 in the verbal. I got a 420 in the verbal. Jose got a 440 in the verbal part on the GRE. And he graduated from Michigan and now he's doing really well. He's very...
COUNSELOR: Yeah, that's only one-I think it's only measurement of what they're looking for as far as success. [0:05:35.0]
PATIENT: But some of the Asian professors? They-they're all about the scores. If you have a lot of Asian professors in the committee. But oh well. I don't know. I've met a lot of Latin American people that got really, really bad scores and they're-they're good scientists and I don't know. At the beginning I was really sad, but then it's like, okay. People that are international people that did pretty well on the GRE, they can't even speak in English or write a message. I got a really good essay score on the GRE. And so, I was just like, that assignment is not good. But it was really hard.
COUNSELOR: I mean, I can imagine. It sounds like you've got a lot of study.
PATIENT: I study, every day with it. It's really hard to work all day and then have the energy to go and study. So I study with this friend. He has six months left of math, math major, like bachelor's. And he works at the college and pharmacy as IT. So he works and studies. And I study with him. Because it was so hard to work all day and then go and study. And he's like, "Marta, you're going to get at least a 500 in the English part. You're doing so much better now." And then I got this bad score. And he said, "I cannot believe this."
COUNSELOR: What do you contribute your bad score to? [0:07:04.0] PATIENT: Why was my bad score?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: There were a lot of words that... I got tons of words at the beginning that I didn't know. And it's really funny because the words that are difficult for people here are really easy for me. Like the words that are Latin-have Latin roots, you know? Words that you don't use on an every day type basis. And this is Kurt. It's supposed to be intermediate questions at the beginning. And if you do bad, they will put easy questions, words.
For me the easy words? Words that people use every day. For me, they're not easy. I never learned them before. So it was really funny. It was completely different. For what what is difficult for me, is easy for someone else. And what's easy for me is difficult. Because I helped my friend a lot with all these Latin verbs. Words, and, oh well.
COUNSELOR: Now did you take the GRE once or twice?
PATIENT: I took it once, last year, in November. And I did as bad as I did this time. No, not as bad. I did worse than this time. And so I decided to study for a whole year and apply for next year, for 2007. And I did it. I did better, I improved, but it was still... I improved 100 points over the whole score. 50 and 50.
COUNSELOR: Okay, so you actually submit your applications this January? Or... PATIENT: I'm submitting it right now.
about:srcdoc Page 37 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
COUNSELOR: Right now? Okay. So what has that process been like for you?
PATIENT: Stressful. Because it's a lot of work. And I have the applications. I have a lot-two of my recommender people that wrote the recommendation letter are Portuguese. So it's really hard to put in contact with them. Sometimes they write the letter in English and it's hard for them. So you have to find someone that will... [0:09:09.3]
COUNSELOR: Translate it or...
PATIENT: And then my mom has to pick them up because the application is not online. They cannot send the application online so they have to send it in paper. So my mom has to go there and pick up the application. Send it to me through FedEx.
COUNSELOR: Well, it sounds like that can be...
PATIENT: And then my boss here, he was just not happy that I'm applying to all these schools.
COUNSELOR: He's not happy that you're applying to all these schools?
PATIENT: He's the one who brought me here from Portuguese. So he tells me all the time that I should stay in Whitehall. And that's the that is the right decision. He's a jerk. I learn how to work for him. But he's a jerk.
COUNSELOR: What makes him a jerk?
PATIENT: He thinks the only person who does things the right way, is him. And that everyone else in the world is wrong. Yeah, that's weird. And, what else makes him a jerk. People don't like him. he's so aggressive. Some one asks him questions on his research. He's like, it's completely defensive and aggressive. And says bad things about everyone.
He's from Portugal. Well this is third person. This story doesn't affect me. He's from Portugal, but he denies it. He is like, "I'd never say I'm Portuguese or from Portugal or they will believe that is because of the affirmative action that I am where I am." And then he's like... so his name is Stephan? And now he's like Steve. So that doesn't even use the other name. He tells me all the time that
COUNSELOR: Does that bother you? [0:10:56.2]
PATIENT: I just think it's so stupid. And he tells me all the time that I shouldn't hang out with Portuguese people. That I shouldn't hang out with other scientists, that I should stay and work here. There are things that you shouldn't recommend to anyone. Everyone should decide what to do and I shouldn't go to Portuguese stuff. (ph)
COUNSELOR: Does he remind you of anyone else in your, in your life or...?
PATIENT: No, I think he's... I don't know. But it was really hard in the beginning to work for him. We had so many fights. He used to tell me I was a handicapped person.
COUNSELOR: That you're handicapped?
PATIENT: Yeah.
about:srcdoc Page 38 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
COUNSELOR: What do you mean?
PATIENT: I was doing some announcements for him and I had some mistakes. And he gets really upset-upset about everything. And you know-how do you say that? Moody? If you do things right, he's going to be so nice with you. He tells me all day, now, "Wonderful job. You're such a hard worker. You're so smart." But then if you do something wrong, he'll just flip. [0:11:59.9]
And then he starts telling me, so he told me. Last time he was really nasty with me, the handicapped thing? It was in March. So I was pretty insulted for me. I was working 80 hours a week. I was leaving the school at 10 pm, coming back at 8 am. It was so hard. I did these mistakes when I gave him the report and he was like, "I think you're handicapped. I think you can't do things right. You have problems with addition and then you make mistakes all the time. Are you trying to fool me." It's a mistake, it's not-but so it was really hard.
Last year, he was really-I mean, he was not a nice person. He was really really annoying. He used to tell us that we were schizophrenic. In a lab meeting, "You guys are schizophrenic. All you guys invent your own world and you give me crazy results. You guys don't work enough." So last year was a really tough year. And then I tried to apply to other schools, to leave Michigan. I didn't want to be in Michigan. I hated it. And then I was like, "Okay, I'm going to apply other schools. If I don't get anywhere, I'll just go back to Portugal." I hated it with all my heart. The project I had was so bad. It was not interesting. So I told him I want to apply to schools. And he's like, "You'll never get into any schools. You're not good enough."
COUNSELOR: What did that feel like? [0:13:27.7]
PATIENT: It's like, "If I'm not good enough, why am I here?" Why don't you get yourself someone that's good enough." And it was really funny. There were these second year students in my lab. Or first years, I don't know. They didn't know anything. They didn't know the basic biological theories or anything, anything. And they came to me all the time to ask questions. Really stupid questions like, I don't know. Things that if you have the pharmacy and biology background. You should know. And I help them a lot. And then he tells me that I'm not good enough to be where I am? I'm better than your two or three year students. PhD students.
COUNSELOR: That must have been frustrating for you.
PATIENT: It was awful. It was so bad. I was like-I was decided to go back to Portugal. That's it-that's it for me. So then he switched my project with, to a different project. I was telling him this is not working. I don't want to do this. This is not working. So of course I was not happy with my project. It wasn't working. You know how-it takes two people to fight. So I was not happy. I was-the project sucked. It was so bad. He was nasty and a jerk. It was fights every week. So he switched my projects to a really interesting one-One I liked. A lot of chemistry, some biology. So I started doing it. But then I started getting bad mistakes. And he was yelling at me. Okay. [0:14:59.6]
So one day he comes to the lab and is talking to me and Christina, which is a third year PhD student. And Jerry which is a first-he kicked out of the program to one of the students. One of the two year students I just told you? He kicked one of them out.
COUNSELOR: Recently? (inaudible at 0:15:14.9)
PATIENT: This was in December before I went back to Portugal. So December, 2005. Last-before Christmas. He was doing-she was doing so bad that she got kicked out. No, I'm sorry, it was not December. It was in
about:srcdoc Page 39 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
October. So then I asked him, "I want to apply to schools. I don't want to stay here for another half-one and a half years. I want to apply to schools." He's like, "You're not good enough. I'm not going to risk my image of letting you apply (ph), giving you your permission letter and then you will be like Lin Tomko." What's her name. I don't remember what her name was. He said, "I don't want to-I don't want you to let you ruin my image. Lin Tomko already ruined it. And you're not good enough. You need a GRE over-you need to get almost perfect scores." He gave me over 2100. I'm like...? So he's like, "You're not good enough. You're not going to get into any school. And I'm not going to give you a recommendation letter." So it's like...
COUNSELOR: Didn't that surprise you?
PATIENT: It surprised me, a lot. And so I was like, "Okay, don't give me a recommendation letter." So I started looking for master's. And... but things got better and then he came to the lab. And was like, " Girls, I want to know why other students don't want to join my lab." And we didn't laugh. We were like-"Because you're a jerk. Because you scare people."
COUNSELOR: You told him that? PATIENT: Yeah. [0:16:43.8] COUNSELOR: Oh, okay.
PATIENT: I mean, we didn't say jerk but, "Because you scare people. You yell at the first year students. You're very aggressive so people are scared of you." And I told him, "And I don't want to have a mean boss. As a mentor, you're going to have to stay with the person five years. The person owns you." He's like, "Well you guys should help me." [And we were like] (ph), "I'm not going to lie to anyone. You have to change." So he pretended that we would tell how nasty he is. So we tell him, "You have to change. There is no way we're not going to lie for you." Because the students ask you, "How is he?" and you're like, " Well..."
COUNSELOR: "He's smart." (laughs)
PATIENT: He's smart but he is not a nice person. And then he yells at everyone in the hallway.
COUNSELOR: Did he ever yell at you in the hallway?
PATIENT: Yeah, when he calls you into his office and closes the doors. It's because he's going to say, "Congratulations." (laughs)
COUNSELOR: Oh, when he closes the door..
PATIENT: I'm just kidding. He always has the door open. And every time he is mad at you, he will yell at you from his office to the hallway. Or like being really mean. And this is to everyone. But if he has something nice to say, we joke about it. It's like he closes the door. The other professors don't like him. They tell me all the time. "Marta, if you really want to come to Michigan for grad school, you know you don't have to work for him." [0:18:16.7]
Well, when he went to the lab and told us, you know like, that he was going to change [at me] (ph). So he's like, "Okay. Today is my day zero." I'm going to give him a second chance and try to erase. I'm not basing my decision on my last year. Just starting-it was what, May? Starting May 1st, let's say. I'm going to just start from zero. Give him another chance. I've been better at my work. I like my project so perhaps my... I think
about:srcdoc Page 40 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
my relationship with him changed a lot because I'm happy with my project. I get good results. And get papers.
So I said, "Okay, day zero. It starts." And then he starts telling me all the time. Every time he sees me. "You should make the bad decision. You should come to Michigan for grad school. You should work for me." And I'm like, the bad decision? That's kind of biased. That is not...
And then we were at a meeting. He was a jerk with everyone. So everyone is like, "Oh so your Marta here got the (inaudible at 0:19:26.9) and I'm like, "Yes." And everyone is like, "Oh poor you." And I'm like (laughs), "Oh-oh. This is not good." And then people in the mainstream (ph), they-no one likes them.
COUNSELOR: Were they talking about him during this conference time?
PATIENT: Everyone talks about how crazy he is. And he doesn't have tenure yet. So, I know he's really smart. His problem is he is emotionally stupid. IQ? He's really really smart. Emotional intelligence, he's like the stupidest guy ever. He's so bad. I really, I mean if I had a chance to go somewhere else, I'll go somewhere else. I don't want to fight with him.
(crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: Do you have to work with him? If you get into Michigan, do you have to-
PATIENT: Well that's what the other professors say. But, that I don't have to work for him. But.. (crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:20:18.8)
PATIENT: The department is so small that he will be in the seminars. In the.. he could be my committee. COUNSELOR: Right, so it sounds like you'll have a difficult time...
PATIENT: It's not-
COUNSELOR: Facing him, if you stay?
PATIENT: Yeah, yeah. I don't think I would be able to. I would give him a chance to start with him. And he gets crazy. I'll switch to a different lab. It's too complicated. I don't think. Because he thinks I owed him for bringing me here.
COUNSELOR: What is that like to be in that type of position, that type of spot? To feel as though you haven't...
PATIENT: It was bad. Now I don't care. Now it's like, "If you want to kick me out of the lab, go ahead. I'll just go back to my house." But in the beginning it was really hard. And he was trying everyone else that I was good enough. Oh because he had a lot of post-docs before. And he had bad, bad fights with him. And they all left after 8 months, 6 months, one year. So he says that post-docs are not good. Everybody else has post-docs. Come on. He's the only one with no post-docs in that lab. And he says that post-docs are stupid and they don't work enough. And he says this in front of everyone. So it's hard. And what makes me really really afraid is
about:srcdoc Page 41 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
that people don't like him. And it will be reflected... COUNSELOR: On you? [0:21:41.7]
PATIENT: On me. I don't know. People don't like him and people don't trust him. So when you graduate from his lab, it's got to be almost impossible to find a job.
COUNSELOR: You think? Has another-have other people...?
PATIENT: Yeah. No, Christina has graduated and she-they already told-some companies they already told her that what she does is... Is not good for pharmaceutical companies.
COUNSELOR: Hm! And and you think it might be because...
PATIENT: I don't know. I'm not I just don't even want to think about it. I'm kind of waiting for other schools to give me offers and... If I have to stay here, I'll figure it out later.
COUNSELOR: But it's too difficult to even think about it now or to... PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Because... if... I know he's really good and I would learn a lot of things. But I'm really afraid that the research he wants to do with me, it's completely different from the field I'm in. Well I guess I could post- doc after I graduate.
COUNSELOR: Are there other professors who are doing... PATIENT: A lot of stuff.
COUNSELOR: Who are too ...
PATIENT: Cool stuff... Here in Michigan? No. Their (inaudible at 0:22:54.2) are really good. I mean, Michigan is a really amazing school. My problem in Michigan is my boss. And the weather. And I have a really good rela-he pays for everything. He tells me like, "Marta, go into this meeting. Go here, go there." He talks to people and says I'm the best person in his lab. He's very very nice with me. But once I do something bad? He turns completely.
COUNSELOR: Is that similar to anybody in your past as far as moody, that moodiness? Where you felt obligated, like you had to do something although you really didn't want to? But because they had done certain things for you, you felt like you had to go and go through with it.
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: No, okay.
PATIENT: I don't know. Yeah, I don't think so.
about:srcdoc Page 42 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
COUNSELOR: Because how have you handled this in the past when you've been faced with a situation that you ? And this one, I guess what I'm hearing you say is you would rather go to another school. [0:23:55.7]
PATIENT: Yeah, if I get accepted in another school, I I'm not, I mean. Yeah. But I want to do research so much that I would give him another chance.
COUNSELOR: Right, but if you're saying that you would rather not work with him. That you have other opportunities to work with other professors...
PATIENT: If they accept me in the other schools, yeah.
COUNSELOR: Right, but here in Michigan, I guess I'm saying.
PATIENT: Oh, but yeah. But I don't think that's the good..
COUNSELOR: Right, because you wouldn't be able to face him in other seminars or if he is on your committee. Or whatever the case is.
PATIENT: He's really nasty. Do you know what he did. We were in Florida. So we would go to Florida and I'm standing with Mandy. She's-she defended two weeks ago. So we like-she's the happiest person. She got a really good job at Pfizer. She's going to the East Coast. She's the happiest person ever. Her advisor retired in January. It was so hard for her. So she had to switch advisors, finish her project with a different person. So the project you can tell that has like-some things that... [0:24:59.5]
COUNSELOR: Disconnection (ph) or..
PATIENT: But what can you do? It's not your fault that your advisor retired six months before your plan to graduate. You know, the other advisor helped her. So we're-she's the happiest person ever. We're standing in Tallahassee at the reception, drinking wine, eating, talking to people. She's really social, like me. We love to go out, we love to go out for dinner. We're meeting people and then my boss comes. And starts telling her that they were really nice with her.
That she was-with that project, she would fail. Which is not true. I mean you can see there is some stuff that doesn't fit in the whole story. But the results and the experimental part are really good. And her-in her committee was the chair of the department and other professors. So he's-you know, they told her, "Okay, Mandy, you graduate."
But then he comes, two weeks after this. He approaches us in a party. It was not about work. It was a party to meet people. And he comes to us and we're with this huge group of people from other companies, from different pharmaceutical companies. And he's like, "Well Mandy, you project was so bad, you could failed. So we were really nice with you. Because a lot of the things you did. You just let it halfway through it. You didn't finish."
COUNSELOR: And he said this amongst a mixed group of people. [0:26:32.1] PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Oh wow.
about:srcdoc Page 43 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
PATIENT: And I, I was a bit hurt.
COUNSELOR: What were you thinking?
PATIENT: And she was...
COUNSELOR: What were you thinking as you heard (ph)... ?
PATIENT: I don't know, I just... it was like, I'm not going to talk to him. I'm just going to leave this place. How can you come and-her advisor retired. She was like..
COUNSELOR: No empathy, no...
PATIENT: Yeah, her project of course had things that were-didn't fit because she had to change advisors. And she wanted to stick with a lot of stuff that her first advisor, the Dr. Cantor that left, helped... When someone moves on, I think as a tribute to this person you kind of... So in her pieces, you could see parts that were like, here are Dr. Cantor's... What are you saying, too?
COUNSELOR: You were saying when someone moves on, you would think you would want to pay tribute to them?
PATIENT: Yeah, she is like, "I'm not-" She told me, it's like, "I put some things in my dissertation because this is what Dr. Cantor had taught. What he was interested in."
COUNSELOR: Right. And so you want to carry that out. Yeah, that would make sense.
PATIENT: And then my boss is telling this. And she is like, "You know, that was Dr. Cantor's idea." And he's like, "Well you should have just took it. Put it apart and not put it in your manuscript." And she was like, "He retired." So this was in front of everyone. And she was so upset. And I was like.. I wanted to say something but sometimes it's not your problem. It's not your fight.
COUNSELOR: Right. [0:28:13.9]
PATIENT: It would have made things worse if I...
COUNSELOR: What were you thinking about saying if (inaudible at 0:28:19.0)... (crosstalk)
PATIENT: I tell him, "Come on, her advisor left. It was a good it was a good it was a good project. Why are you telling her this here? Why didn't you tell her this at-that's why you meet with the people on your data sessions. And that's why you meet your professors at the defense. Why do you have to say this in front of everyone?"
COUNSELOR: He wanted to embarrass her, maybe?
PATIENT: Yeah! I'm like, this guy is crazy. I don't want to work for him.
COUNSELOR: Now I'm wondering, Marta, as I'm listening to you. We had briefly talked about this in the
about:srcdoc Page 44 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
last session or the session before last. We were talking about your interest in cancer and where that might have come from. I know you said that's a complex disease and there's research done. And we talked about significant people who had passed away and died of cancer.
And it's interesting to hear you say now and looking at your friend's situation. And how people die and move on, you want to continue to carry out things that remind you of them or whatever the case is. And so I just want to, kind of... look at that. And even in your own work, we talked about maybe doing some of that. I just wonder what comes up when you think about Mandy paying tribute to Dr. Cantor in her work. And when you look at your work and significant people who've moved on. [0:29:51.6]
PATIENT: No no, I mean. Yeah, I think... how do I say this. No, I-No, I don't know exactly what to tell you. I don't know some of the questions. The question is how do I feel or ?
COUNSELOR: The question is, do you see any connection? Any relationship? You say that in Mandy's situation, it is..
PATIENT: Yeah, I would-I would definitely like... if you spend four years with such a nice-her advisor was so nice. He was such a nice person. He was... so of course I understand that she didn't want to.. just erase him from...
COUNSELOR: Sure, (inaudible at 0:30:36.1)
PATIENT: No, I understand that. I mean it's the same thing-I think it happens to everyone. Someone special in your life and they pass away. So you don't want to... You don't want to erase them. So that's why-
COUNSELOR: What about you? PATIENT: Huh?
COUNSELOR: Hasn't there been someone special in your life, has passed that you didn't want to erase and you continue to do something in honor of them, maybe? Or... [0:30:57.9]
PATIENT: I don't know if it's like explicit that I continue doing something in honor of them. I don't know. COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Yeah...
COUNSELOR: Okay. Look, it makes wonder, because we talked before, you've talked about your psychotherapist who became very ill. So that's what comes to my mind. I'm often curious as I've been thinking about our discussions and things. I wonder if... You talk and [at one point] (ph), you described her and it seemed like you really liked her, and had some thoughts about her with her passing away so suddenly. I wonder how much of your loss have you grieved. And how much of her memory do you continue to carry on with you.
PATIENT: I think... yeah, I think asking you for help or like coming her. (cries) COUNSELOR: That's okay. [0:32:08.1]
about:srcdoc Page 45 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
PATIENT: I think that's what she taught me. Okay. That you don't need to be crazy. That normal people, that people that are... Because she used to tell me. Okay of course I was a teenager. I was going to therapy twice a week. A lot of people in my high school were. But then everybody is laughing, "Oh you're crazy." So then I'm like, "Yeah I'm crazy." So we used to laugh with her a lot about how crazy people are, the ones who never ask for help. Or never realize that they're not-that they're having problems and that it's so difficult.
So some, a lot of problems are so difficult to handle. And sometimes they're not even your prob-sometimes it's your family problem or your boss is crazy and everybody hates him. And then everybody tells you, "You're such a nice person. You shouldn't work for him." So I think coming here and asking for help and going to therapy. Or telling my friends that they should go to.
My mom got really depressed, so I was like, "Mom, you have to go to a psychiatrist or psychologist, whatever. You have to ask for help. You cannot deal with my brother's situation. You getting old." I mean, I didn't say, "You getting old." Dad's retirement. Losing her mom, my grandmother died. My grandfather died. Everything she was alone in one year. My brother left, I left, my grandfather died and my grandmother died. So I was like, "You have to go and ask for help. You cannot do this by yourself." And she was so bad that they start-the psychiatrist suggested to her to take Zoloft. Which I'm not a fan of anti-depressants at all. I hate them. But I think that in her situation, doing that for a couple of months or I don't know how long the treatment, it's okay. But I think that's my tribute too. [0:34:18.6]
COUNSELOR: What was her name again? PATIENT: Bella.
COUNSELOR: Bella. Okay.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. And I would hope that over the course of this work, Marta, that we can talk a little bit more about Bella. Because in the previous sessions, it seems like talking about her is painful for you, or reflecting on that. And I say that because when I bring her up sometimes-
PATIENT: Right, right.
COUNSELOR: You change the subject or you cry and then change the subject to something else. And that was a significant loss for you.
PATIENT: yeah.
COUNSELOR: You know, and it's okay to-I'm wondering if you ever really had a chance to grieve her loss. And I think that would be important for you to do. She seems like a really neat person. You saw her for a long amount of time. And then the way it ended, I'm sure that there's all types of mixed feelings about that. And if you don't grieve that properly or work through that, in a sense, I mean... it could continue to hurt or whatever the case is.
PATIENT: When she died, I was... I don't know how old I was. But my parents were out of town. She was really good friends. She and her husband were really good friends, were friends with my parents and had friends in common. And she was-her husband used to work in the same place my father did. They're all from
about:srcdoc Page 46 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
the same city. So my parents are a part of this big... wave of people that went from one city to the other. Like I told you, we moved. They're economist and they're from the city. And now they-a lot of them moved to Lisbon to work in the government or different universities. [0:36:11.4]
So that's... So there was a big group of people like my parents, including her and her husband. So when she did, my parents were out of town, working. I don't know where they were. And I didn't know anyone that was going to her funeral. So I didn't go.
COUNSELOR: You didn't go to the funeral? Oh, okay.
PATIENT: I didn't want to go by myself. But it's like you say. I never had the time... Because you go to a funeral and it's more like to say, "Sorry". No, not sorry. You don't say, "Sorry" at funerals. How do you say that? To?
COUNSELOR: Goodbyes?
PATIENT: Yeah. To tell the person you feel their pain?
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: But I didn't know anyone. I never went-I didn't go to the funeral. But I think, after that I learned that you have to go the funerals. You have to go through the process of...
COUNSELOR: How do you think going to the funeral would've helped you? Or (inaudible at 0:37:21.5).
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: I don't know. I think I was really young and I didn't know anyone.
COUNSELOR: Sure. But going through looking back at it now, you're saying that you can see..
PATIENT: No, I think it would-it would have helped if my parents were there. But I think, I don't know how it would be, if I were by myself.
COUNSELOR: Right. How do you think it would have helped you if you had been able to go? If you... PATIENT: In what to do? In what?
COUNSELOR: Uhm-
PATIENT: Would my...?
COUNSELOR: So when you think about it now, and say it probably would've been a good thing to go. That it would've helped you with the process. What would've been some of the benefits of being able to go to the funeral and say your feelings or...
PATIENT: That I wouldn't be crying every time you ask about her. COUNSELOR: Okay. Yeah.
about:srcdoc Page 47 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
PATIENT: Yeah, I guess it's that.
COUNSELOR: Okay. So I mean, I want you to think about that. So let's say if you were to go-if you had a chance to go to the funeral. Or if you could have had one more session with her, knowing that she was going to pass away. What kinds of things would you have said to her. And just kind of, over this period, kind of think about that, and we can talk through that together, in our next session, if you like.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: I think what's important, Marta, especially because she was so significant to you, and having left that situation unresolved?
PATIENT: Mm-hm.
COUNSELOR: I think what can happen is that it can play itself out in our relationship.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Do you see how that could happen or...?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: Did she ever talk to you about transference issues or...?
PATIENT: About what?
COUNSELOR: Transference...
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: Issues... Okay.
PATIENT: Like...no.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: No, I used to date a guy and she used to say that I was dating him because he was like my father.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: And it's like, stop dating. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: Yeah, so it's like transference. Here you have this father who is similar so you bring that into relationship (inaudible at 0:39:25.00).
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: Oh yes, she was all about Freud. So she was all about...
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
about:srcdoc Page 48 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
PATIENT: "You are dating him because he's like your father." And so..
COUNSELOR: Right. And so what I'm saying is, if there were certain connections or certain feelings of things that you had toward Bella in that psychotherapeutic relationship, and there are mixed feelings and things that you have. And sometimes those things can be carried out in our relationship because I can represent psychotherapists, although I'm Betty in 2006. She was Bella in, over the seas. In a certain period of time, those things can carry over.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Right? And so just something to think about. It doesn't mean that it has to happen that way, but it can. And so the times where I may think that applies, I may bring it up. Because it's about relating your past relationships to your present relationships. And even how you relate in here with me. And so we may talk about that at some point.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Okay? But how do you feel? What are you thinking?
PATIENT: Right now?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I'm okay.
COUNSELOR: You're sure? Okay. Because it's tough? [This stuff's] (ph) hard for you? Sure. What's tough about it? [0:40:50.1]
PATIENT: (cries)
COUNSELOR: You miss her or you...?
PATIENT: No. I'm just... I think I'm overwhelmed with all the meetings and ...
COUNSELOR: So the exhaustion?
PATIENT: And now coming back here. And the winter.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: And yeah, I miss her, of course, but...
COUNSELOR: Okay. So what are you going to do to take care of yourself this-for the rest of the week, and this weekend?
PATIENT: This weekend, I have one thousand plans. I'm like, I don't want to do it. I need to sleep. But I have a lot of plans. I met a really nice guy in the meeting.
COUNSELOR: Oh, okay.
about:srcdoc Page 49 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety
11/8/25, 6:54 PM
PATIENT: But he's from Portland so, ah, forget about it.
(laughter)
PATIENT: Why don't I, why don't it-
COUNSELOR: Can you just talk on the phone, or...?
PATIENT: One of my topics on the list was like, less than two miles away from my house. COUNSELOR: (laughs)
PATIENT: No we had a really good time. And it was really good because he's applying, he's going to apply to schools next year? And he's a-he works at Pfizer. He graduated from Michigan, has a (inaudible at 0:42:10.3). And he got a job at Pfizer. And then moved to Maine. Pfizer, Maine. And he lives in Portland, eh, oh well.
COUNSELOR: Oh.
PATIENT: But, no, it was good. I got a lot-a lot of people and asked me for dates. They never asked about the sign. (ph)
(laughter) COUNSELOR: Oh, okay.
PATIENT: No, I'm just-I'm just joking. I mean, a lot of people came to ask me about the signs. But I was like explaining them and suddenly they're like, "What are you going to do tonight?" And I'm like, "What?"
(laughter)
PATIENT: Yeah, but oh well. Well this guy, yeah. So this guy is applying to a lot of similar schools and I'm applying. And he's like, "I don't want to go to Michigan." Which is good. Because everybody is like, "Michigan is so good, you have to go to Michigan."
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: And then he's like, "Yeah, Michigan is so good. There are a lot of good schools. But I already spent six years in Michigan."
COUNSELOR: Okay, okay.
PATIENT: And he's like And I understand. And he's like, "You should move. You should not work for your boss." And so he was good because I was applying-I'm applying to the same schools-some of the same schools that he's going to apply. So I was relieved. It's not I'm not crazy for leaving Michigan. If I get accepted somewhere else, I'll just...
COUNSELOR: You'll be okay with that.
PATIENT: Yeah, he was really nice. We had a lot of fun. We talked so much.
about:srcdoc Page 50 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
COUNSELOR: Oh, okay. Well that's good. [0:43:30.2]
PATIENT: Yeah. So and it was good because he's like, "I can't play (ph) that good." COUNSELOR: Yeah, I'm sure that was a huge relief to you. And it seems like that person (ph)
PATIENT: And it was so funny because I tell in two weeks, and my friend from my lab is like, before I met the guy half an hour before I met him. Christina, this girl said, "Oh Marta, by the way, your two weeks are over. Now you can start dating."
COUNSELOR: (laughs)
PATIENT: And I'm like, "Christina, what am I going to meet in these things? This is bunch of geeks and PhD students. PhDs. It's like, there's no one here for me." And then half an hour, you have... it was so funny.
COUNSELOR: Oh, okay.
PATIENT: We were laughing. And he is really nice to hang out with. He is really smart. I really enjoyed hanging out with a smart guy.
COUNSELOR: Sure. Well good for you.
PATIENT: So yeah, but oh well. He lives in Portland. I'll find someone else. No, I mean... it was a good thing too. You know, like to...
COUNSELOR: To get your feet back out there. (laughs)
PATIENT: Yeah. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: Well good for you, good for you. Okay, we have to end now. PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Do you want to come back next week?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay. See we had talked about... let me see. We talked about possibly doing Wednesday, the 12:15, but I'll be in Berkley on that Wednesday. So I'm wondering. That's Veteran's Day. I won't be here Veteran's Day. Are you able to come on Thursdays or?
PATIENT: Yeah. What time?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, let's do... (inaudible at 0:45:28.2) PATIENT: I can come whenever. I'm right next door, so. COUNSELOR: Okay, let's do 12:00 on Thursday.
about:srcdoc
Page 51 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety
11/8/25, 6:54 PM
PATIENT: what day is that?
COUNSELOR: The ninth.
PATIENT: Okay, Because we have lunches on the sixth and the eighth. COUNSELOR: Is that okay?
PATIENT: Mm-hm. Okay.
COUNSELOR: And have you finished the computer things yet?
PATIENT: Oh I have to finish it.
COUNSELOR: Are you going to finish those today or you going to come back? PATIENT: I don't know. I'm really hungry.
COUNSELOR: (laughs) All right. I need to go those done!
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: Okay, I'll finish them.
COUNSELOR: So I can put your treatments in together.
PATIENT: Ah, yeah, I'll finish them right now.
COUNSELOR: Okay, I mean, if you you know.
END TRANSCRIPT
TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: MP. November 16. Therapist: Betty
COUNSELOR: Flats instead.
PATIENT: And shorts and it's like really cold out. You guys are going to get sick. But I guess if you're from Michigan.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I don't see how folks do what they. And even when it snows! People are still in shorts and t-shirts.
PATIENT: But you're from Michigan, right?
COUNSELOR: I'm actually from Ohio.
  about:srcdoc Page 52 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
PATIENT: Oh, okay. You're from the Midwest. Okay.
COUNSELOR: I just have been here for the last seven years or so.
PATIENT: So there were some words in my ... in that computer thing?
COUNSELOR: Uh-huh.
PATIENT: That I didn't understand. So I left them blank. If you explain to me what the word means, I can tell you.
COUNSELOR: Okay. I have to go through it, and see which ones were left blank. And if that's used for information, I'll let you know.
PATIENT: Okay. I called one of my friends and asked her a couple of questions. And I was like, "What is sloppy?" And she's like, "Messy. Disorganized." It's like, "Okay. Thank you." (laughs) [0:01:11.2]
COUNSELOR: (laughs) You were [able to] (ph) get some help. Have you ever seen "Who Wants to be a Millionaire?" The game show where you call and use a lifeline?
(laughter)
PATIENT: I had to call a friend. That's how it was.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah. Let me give this to you. This is just a statement that we do every month.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Just outlining if you had a balance or not, we would talk about that. But it seems like your [folks are doing that] (ph). You don't have to worry about that.
PATIENT: Well [why I don't tell you that] (ph)... I don't know. I'm glad I have health insurance. Living without health insurance here, it would be...
COUNSELOR: Believe it or not, there are people every day who don't have health insurance.
PATIENT: Yeah. I mean if you don't work, it's hard to.
COUNSELOR: Definitely and then you know, it's great to have it.
PATIENT: Yeah. I'm-I feel happy to have it. And the university one is really good.
COUNSELOR: Mm-hm. Definitely. So let's talk about this for a moment. Have some concerns come up for you? When you found out that I was sick? You told me I was... Listen to you!
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: No. I'm just kidding. I was like, "The flu! Oh my God. That's hard." No, I'm just kidding. I was. I don't know, I was just kidding. Don't worry. I know you're not going to die because of the flu.
about:srcdoc Page 53 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
COUNSELOR: Okay. I just want to check because sometimes things happen and it brings up, you know. PATIENT: No, but yeah. I mean, yeah. I would be concerned if you were really sick.
COUNSELOR: Okay, okay. Well that was just cold. And I'm not going anywhere.
PATIENT: (laughs) I'm just kidding. I'm sorry.
COUNSELOR: You don't have to be sorry. But that's true you know. Especially with things happening in the past and it seems like something may be headed that direction. It makes sense that that concern, that fear or that worry would come up then. (ph)
PATIENT: No, and I was thinking about what we talked last time. And I and you were right. I never had the opportunity to... how do you say that. To gray... [0:03:17.7]
COUNSELOR: Grieve? PATIENT: What? COUNSELOR: Grieve?
PATIENT: Grieve. Exactly. Grieve that then. And then my mother had cancer. I had to be the strong one so I never had the opportunity to sit down and cry. When my mom had cancer a year before that, her my mom's best friend died from cancer. Breast cancer, too. And two weeks after she dec-her name was Peta. After Peta died from cancer, my uncle died from cancer. And my uncle and my mom were really really close.
So when my mom found out she had cancer. I mean, fortunately they found out that really, in a very very early stage. They just removed the breast. And that was it. She didn't have to go through chemotherapy or anything. But I had to be so strong. And... and I understood that it was an early stage that things... I never had the opportunity to sit down and cry or-I don't know, I think when you are in the world of science and research, and you do medical research? You kind of understand scientific, yeah, a lot of things.
But I think that sometimes understanding those things makes it harder to grieve and to cry and to think that... It's kind of like-I don't know, it's like understanding it and knowing what happens and what cannot happen is sometimes fights that part. Sometimes your brain fights with your soul. With your emotions. [0:05:05.5]
So it's like I-after I talked to you, I understood it. I never cried. Well, yeah, I cried but I never expressed completely my feelings because my brain was also telling me, "It's an early stage cancer. And these stages are not." Breast cancer is something that is not-it's easy to detect so. I don't know, I just realized that. It's okay. I can understand how things are but I need to.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. And that's exactly how it happens, Marta. We intellectualize- PATIENT: Everything.
COUNSELOR: Our situation. We intellectualize our pain even that's connected to a situation. So we don't feel or allow ourselves the opportunity to experience the feelings.
(crosstalk)
about:srcdoc Page 54 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
PATIENT: Yeah, it's like-yeah. You give yourself all the reas-all the answers. COUNSELOR: The rationalizations and the... mmm-hm.
PATIENT: And yeah, it's like, I had the right to block my brain in those. I need to block my brain in those situations.
COUNSELOR: Yeah because what happens if we don't-
PATIENT: Then after five years, everything comes out like a boom. So yeah. So I understood what you were trying to-what you were asking me and trying to tell me.
COUNSELOR: Well good, yeah. [0:06:27.3]
PATIENT: Yeah but I-yeah. And it's all about understanding the stupid. You know the disease or understanding the person is old. Like my grandmother died? When did she die... I think it was in August-July August. She was really really sick and really really old. And so-and she was there in Portugal. And I'm here. And you kind of like-so she died. And the first thing I said was, "Oh my God. That's so good. She was suffering so much. She had-because she had this cancer. You see I never... That's how I realize.
COUNSELOR: You realize what?
PATIENT: That I never told you that she-my grandmother died and she had cancer. Because I don't know. When they tell me. She was really sick and they didn't know why she was sick. She couldn't eat for I don't know how many months. And then-oh my God. I'm just shocked that I just realized that she died from cancer too.
COUNSELOR: What's so shocking about it?
PATIENT: When you asked me who died from cancer, I didn't have-I don't know. I never put her in the list. And I just realized that. So like they-
COUNSELOR: Any particular reason why you wouldn't have put her in the list? [0:07:51.3]
PATIENT: I don't know. Because-I don't know why I did it. Because she actually-she died from a respiratory. How do you say that, like-she stopped breathing. But she had cancer. The thing, okay, the thing is, she was really sick. Nobody knew what she had. They took her to the hospital. The doctors saw her and they couldn't find out. And after three days, they found out it was an amar (ph) or whatever. She a really really bad cancer. So they never treated her or anything. And she died four years after-four days or five days after the doctors realized that.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Wow. [0:08:35.7]
PATIENT: So that-that yeah. So yeah, perhaps that's why I never put her...
COUNSELOR: That must have been really difficult.
PATIENT: It was really hard. First, she was really sick for a lot of-long time. So you feel bad because she's suffering. Then I was not in Portugal and my mom was there by her-with my father. And my grandfather died
about:srcdoc Page 55 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
in December so. So what? So, and I haven't seen my mom since that happened. I'm going back next month and... so yeah. Sometimes this something happens to me too.
COUNSELOR: Sure, go ahead.
PATIENT: That I'm here. I'm really happy to be here. I know this is what I want. But being away makes you feel like... how you say that in English. Guilty, because you're not there. And they understand that I'm here. My parents, they-what they tell me is like, "Nothing can make us more happy that you're there." But then you feel guilty that you cannot go back. And I would be-I would love to have the money. If something happens, you just fly there and be there. But I don't even have-I don't have the money. I don't have the time. I'm not going to ask my parents to give me money, several times a year to go there. So I feel guilty and I know I shouldn't feel guilty. That's the same thing my brain[0:10:14.8]
COUNSELOR: Your brain tells that you shouldn't (inaudible at 0:10:17.8) (crosstalk)
PATIENT: You shouldn't feel guilty because this is what you want. And this is what is right. So, yeah. So that's that part. And it was the same when my grandfather died last year. It was the same thing. I was feeling like I should be there. I shouldn't be here. I should be there with my mom. Or whoever missed me.
My friends, something happened to them and I cannot be there. And I try to call them but then this stupid phone doesn't work. (laughs) I tried to call Alicia ten times, one of my friends. And the calling card doesn't work so it's like, "Well!" But you know, it's the same thing. The brain doesn't let me get sad. So after I don't know many months or whatever, I start feeling bad. And I understand I cannot-I mean I cannot be there.
COUNSELOR: Right. With your heart so filled, it's like you should be there, you would like to be there.
PATIENT: Yeah. Because I don't know. And I don't think it's bad to feel that I should be there. But I realize that I cannot. It's so...
COUNSELOR: Sure. Realistically. [0:11:39.6]
PATIENT: Yeah. So. But I still feel sad about not being able to be there.
COUNSELOR: What's saddening about it? What is it that you would like to be able to do that you can't because you're here.
PATIENT: Be there in that. During the hard times. I don't know. What, like-sit down and be next to the person.
COUNSELOR: What about even being able to say your goodbyes? PATIENT: Yeah, I think that.
COUNSELOR: If your grandmother passed away while you were here, your grandfather passed away while you were here.
PATIENT: Yeah.
about:srcdoc Page 56 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
COUNSELOR: So on one hand, it's about (inaudible at 0:12:30.4) to console your mom, for losing her parents.
PATIENT: Yeah, I think it's that since we moved to the first city? All my family is in another city. So I didn't see my grandparents or I haven't seen my family in a long time. Four or five years. And I grew up like that. So I don't feel bad for not being able to say goodbye because they were never-for a long time, they were not in my same city. But yeah, of course you wish you had the opportunity to say goodbye. But yeah, so. But it's more like being close to the people that really needs it. My mom, she was really sad so it would be really good to be there. (cries) And being able to.
COUNSELOR: You'd be her Kleenex? No? [0:13:35.9]
PATIENT: No, I mean no. Yeah, just to be next-I think in those situations, people... My best friend, her dad died from a stroke. Brain-yeah. And she always says how we, my other friend and I we always were there sitting by-She didn't have to tell us what to do or like she needed anything. We just-we were just there. And that's how I feel.
If you are in a really bad moment, and you have some-and you know that you have someone there. To support you and this person is not someone you have to tell her or him what to do and how you're feeling. Like a really close person that understands you and is just there. If you're thirsty, they know you're thirsty. If they want to yell at you because-whatever. Sometimes people get sad and get a little bit mad. That you understand that they're yelling at you, not because they're mad at you. Just because they're sad. So that's the part that's hard. Not being able to-to be there in the hard times.
COUNSELOR: Well it sounds like your mom may have been there for you during hard times? PATIENT: My mom?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I always tell-it's really funny. I always tell my parents everything. "Oh I'm dating this guy" or "I'm going out with someone." We always tell each other almost everything. And they're- my parents are always there. At the beginning when I got here. I had a lot of problems with my boss. He's quite crazy. But now I know how to handle him. and now we have a really good relationship. And he wants me to stay here. But at the beginning was really hard. It was the worst thing in the world. I don't know if I-I think I told you.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, you told me all that stuff. [0:15:51.4]
PATIENT: And I always-I always called my parents. I knew they were going to get a little worried about me. But it was the only people I could just call and tell them. Because sometimes friends-if you talk a lot about work, they'll get... (laughs) My parents are always there. I call them and it's like, "I have this problem" or "I'm feeling like this." I don't know. They understand me a lot. We have a good relationship.
COUNSELOR: Sure. Yeah, and it's good to probably have somebody to just be able to tolerate whatever you feeling and whatever you're going through. Just to be that container to hold it all and not judge you. Or just to be supportive. Whatever you're experiencing or going through. [0:16:41.8]
about:srcdoc Page 57 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
PATIENT: Yeah, so I think I feel bad and not being able. Not only to be there, but also you want to support them, too? And you cannot.
COUNSELOR: It feels like your hands are tied. And you want to do this but maybe you can't do it.
PATIENT: Yeah, and I know that they are happier now, that I'm here and that I'm following my dream. I'm studying and I'm that if I were there, sitting right next to them without doing anything. I would rather have my kids away and learning and growing up. That, and doing anything in the house. So that's what that's what's it. My brain says something and my emotions say another thing.
COUNSELOR: Well hopefully in this space, Marta, we can hear what your heart and your emotions are saying.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And not so much of your mind because I think, you know, our mind-we allow our minds to say a lot so that we can go on with our functions and our responsibilities. Right, because if you got in touch with your feelings at work and allowed yourself to experience this grief or whatever, would you be able to do your job.
You know, and hopefully this is a space where you can give yourself permission or that part of yourself permission to express yourself. Because you don't-your only task here is to... to talk and be supported. Or get some things off your chest. You don't have any work deadlines or equations and whatever else you do, right?
PATIENT: Yeah, that's good.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, so that's okay. So whatever you experience or whatever comes to you, it's okay to let that out. Because it sounds like you've experienced a lot of loss. For someone your age in such a short amount of time as far as the deaths that you've experienced. And then just lots of (inaudible at 0:18:52.0).
PATIENT: Yeah but that COUNSELOR: Hm?
PATIENT: Yeah. I think since Portugal is such-we're-it's a poor country. We also have violence. We also have a lot of things going on. So I think we're faced with death and with really bad things, more often that what a person from Whitehall or a small town would. Yeah, so. Yeah and life expectancy in Portugal is way-I mean, way shorter than here. [0:19:28.7]
COUNSELOR: Really, because that would make sense. I mean if that's the case and people may become more sensitized or desensitized to death, maybe. If, you know, it happens more frequently, or life expectancy. But there's still something about losing something that you care about. Even if it's expected. Or if it happens all around you. And you're you know, it's still something about losing somebody that is close to you.
PATIENT: Yeah, and when the people like my grandparents, when they're old, always says, "Well they were suffering a lot. For a long time. They rest." But you still fee-you still feel the loss.
COUNSELOR: Definitely.
about:srcdoc Page 58 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
PATIENT: And it's like an irra-an irrational feeling. No, how do you s-yeah it's like very... I don't know. Cavemen feeling. Nothing has-it has nothing to do with your brain. It's just that you feel it. You believe you know they rested and they're not suffering anymore. [0:20:39.6]
COUNSELOR: And there's a part of you that feels good about that. And there's a part of you that misses them as a person, or... you know. And being present in your life in some kind of way. That must have been really scary in being faced with your mom's own cancer. And not especially when it happened. When the diagnosis came right after a series of these other deaths. And I'm just wondering what that was like for you.
PATIENT: And I was in the middle of finals at the university. So she never told me. She told me. Yeah. I was in finals and work and had due dates and things like that. And she never told me. So she found out on her birthday, which was May 23rd. And then, I was in finals. They scheduled the surgery and everything. And two days before the surgery, she tells me. "I have cancer. They're going to-there's going to be a surgery in two days." And I'm like, "what? How didn't you tell me?" It's like, "You were in exams. I didn't want to-you work really hard during the whole semester. I didn't want to screw your grades."
COUNSELOR: How did you feel that she didn't tell you? [0:22:05.8]
PATIENT: I think I at the beginning I was so mad at her. But but yeah, so I told her, "What is wrong with you?" How do you say that in English. I faced her. "How didn't you tell me this? Why do you have to get this for yourself?" And she's like, "Well you were in your exams. I didn't want to get in your school." And then... but then, the surgery came. So I felt mad at her for a couple of-what, a day or something. And then I was really sad.
I think it was normal. Like, I got mad at her but then I realized, I have to be there. And it's not that you-she kept it for herself. She told my parent-my father. They were... and she told me one week after she found out. So yeah, so. I felt mad but then I didn't anymore. I just felt really sad. And then the surgery went really well. And then she was-she, then she kept going to the mammograms. Mammograms? What? Every six months, and then one day she came home and said, "Oh! Now I have to go only once a year." And, so that was good. [0:23:58.8]
COUNSELOR: And so how did you feel at that point, when she came back with that news?
PATIENT: Oh! I mean, really good. But-yeah. Really, really good. But I still feel-it's-I mean-I know a lot of people. That, her friends for example. A lot of people develop the cancer ten years after or, you know, like. So I cannot close my eyes and say, "She's completely..."
COUNSELOR: So that fear of her...
PATIENT: And then also, I don't know. I'm one of the people that think that a lot of stress, a lot of depression, things like that, can make things easier so you can get cancer again? And she always stressed. You know, like, well-she has my brother, drives her crazy. And then she... I don't know. She was really depressed. Now she's going-I told you she's going to this psychiatrist. I don't know. She's been through a lot of stress in the last three or four years.
So that-I always tell her, "You have to-You have to calm down. And you have to think about you. Look for some kind of way to-because you're going to get sick again." And that's what the doctor always tells her. "If you keep going in so much stress and depression, you're going to get sick again." So I always tell her. "You
about:srcdoc Page 59 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
have to think that you can get sick again. Please."
COUNSELOR: So in a sense it sounds like you sometimes feel responsible for your mom, and her health? Or...
PATIENT: No. It's just that... COUNSELOR: Okay. [0:25:55.1]
PATIENT: No, like I'm I'm afraid that it can happen. And sometimes she needs someone that tells her that she can that she needs to calm down. So I get really serious and I'm like, "You have to-you have to." For example, I tell her, "You have to exercise more often. You need to this..."
Because I think sometimes she leaves-so worried. She's so worried about my brother or the problems with her family. Oh because I have uncles that are awful so they fight all the time. Since she's stays in the middle, all the problems come to her. So I have to tell her, "You have to take time for yourself. You have to make friends. You have to do things that are for you."
COUNSELOR: So how does it feel watching your mom go through this period of stress? How-what is it like for you, to experience that?
PATIENT: Well I-it's hard. I think it's really hard to see. But but I also see that we're humans and all the moms are like that. All my friends.
COUNSELOR: Is that your emotions speaking? Or your mind speaking? Maria?
PATIENT: No no no no no. It's my emotions. I always get-it's hard, it's hard. But I'm happy that-for example, I tell her, "You have to exercise more." And she listens to me. And she tells me or says something and like "Well I'll try it." And then she does it. And that's good. I can tell her something and she always takes my advice in a good way.
COUNSELOR: Okay. So in that way you may feel validated or affirmed? [0:27:58.0] PATIENT: Yeah. And
COUNSELOR: That she listens to some things?
PATIENT: Yeah, and more like helpful.
COUNSELOR: Okay. You feel like you're being helpful (inaudible at 0:28:04.3)?
PATIENT: And you know, like sometimes I try to I feel helpful and feel like I'm doing something good for her to-that it's not... Sometimes it's hard, like to make like your parents are always helping and helping you. And if you can help them, and I think that's nice.
COUNSELOR: What about that makes you teary now?
PATIENT: That I'm applying to schools and so I (laughs)-my poor mom. I asked her I asked her to do all these, asked for transcripts, for recommendation letters. Go here, go there. Get financial certificates. Ask for
about:srcdoc Page 60 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
my professional registra-I graduated and I started doing research. So I never cared about the professional. In Portugal we use a professional card that says you're a pharmacist, or whatever you are. And I never did that. So she's right now, running around doing about everything for me. That's why.
COUNSELOR: So you felt bad about that?
PATIENT: No, I tell her all the time. I'm I mean it. I'm thankful.
COUNSELOR: So your tears are about being grateful about how your mom is helping you. Okay. PATIENT: Yeah, it's yeah, it's... yeah.
(crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:29:33.7)
PATIENT: It has really helped me a lot during-like, I don't know. I called her every day. It's like, "Shoot, I forgot to send you this." And then it's like, "I'm running out of money." And she's like, "Don't worry, don't worry. If you are going to get into school, I'll..."
COUNSELOR: So it seems like she's really helpful. (ph)
PATIENT: And my dad is the same thing. They e-mail me twice a day. "Do you think we should do this or we should do that?" You know, like with all the paperwork they're doing there. I'm grateful. That's why I'm my tears come.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Yeah, but. But I tell them, too.
COUNSELOR: So it sounds that, Marta, you talking-began talking earlier about this guilt that you feel about not being there during hard times. Not being able to support and being supportive of your mom. It sounds like although you're here, your mom is making steps and making ways for her to be as supportive as she can. Although I'm sure she would like to be right here with you, right? But she's doing whatever she can. [0:30:38.9]
PATIENT: Yeah. And I think I'm I'm the same thing.
COUNSELOR: And you're doing the best that you can. Right? You're calling. You're encouraging her, trying to be helpful. And that's what you can do, given the distance. And the reality is of the situation.
PATIENT: And we talk and she tells me this and that. And so. So I think both of us are being supp and like my dad, too. He's more reserved. He doesn't tell me everything. She even tells me that she fights with him. And I'm like, "Mom! Come on."
COUNSELOR: Right, things you don't want to...
PATIENT: But oh well. I'm glad because I can tell her "Don't tell me that." And... but yeah. I think they're really supportive. And I try to do the same thing, with them. But it's hard. [0:31:37.4]
about:srcdoc Page 61 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
COUNSELOR: What's hard?
PATIENT: To be far away.
COUNSELOR: I can't imagine what that would be like. How many miles is it? Or how far?
PATIENT: Far. I don't know how far it is. I think that a direct flight would take you, what? Six hours to get there.
COUNSELOR: That has to be hard. PATIENT: Yeah, it's hard.
COUNSELOR: Being (inaudible at 0:32:11.0), yeah. And then to experience some of the things you've talked about since you've been here. Some of the hard times you've had, and not to have...
PATIENT: Yeah, and then, then again, it's like you're brain is fighting with your emotions because it's like-at the beginning, happened I got here, and I met a lot of people. The first three weeks, I kind of didn't realize I was here. Or like-or like I was going out and there was meeting people. Going out in Whitehall. Having my own apartment, which it's something-everything is cool. When you get here, things are so cool.
And it's like "Whoa!" I'm where I want to be. A great job, an opportunity. And then after three weeks of my brain trying to-like the same thing. "Oh my God-everything is marvelous." I had a shock-I was crying for whole days. I missed my house, I missed my parents. And it's that-it's like I'm always and I'm always like that. It happened before. I I don't let my feelings go out and then, yeah. Then I get really sad. But it happened before. I told you the...
COUNSELOR: Which one, which time?
PATIENT: Didn't I tell you? No, yeah, that I-there was a semester in school, a fourth semester or something like that. I was working really hard, and I broke up with my boyfriend.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: Yeah, I think I told you. And I never cried. And after all the due-all the deadlines were like I gave all my work-I started crying. The doctor said, "You cannot think about anything during the whole week." And I'm like "Uh!"
COUNSELOR: And that's when you went to go back into therapy? [0:34:07.5] PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: That's when I was in college, yeah. So it always happens to me. So, that's why I like to come to therapy because it's a place where I can say whatever I feel and without being indent-you know, like with-so those things don't happen.
COUNSELOR: So it doesn't build up to a point where you can't...
about:srcdoc Page 62 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
PATIENT: Hm?
COUNSELOR: So it doesn't build up to a point where you can't function or do what you need to do. PATIENT: Yeah. So.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Then I think it was happen-I got here, one and a half year, feeling lonely, being away. All the pressure of the work. At the beginning, I should have come a year ago. The beginning didn't work. So everything starts to build up. Then the GRE and applying to schools. And I'm like, "I need to go therapy. I'm going to get crazy if I don't." Yeah. That. It's good to ... to say things. [0:35:28.3]
COUNSELOR: How does it feel to say, to speak and to talk? PATIENT: Really good. Really good.
COUNSELOR: Now if you want to stop, you just, you know... No, one way (ph) we give you in here space, to be able to share or feel or...
PATIENT: Or cry. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: Or cry.
PATIENT: You're going to think the person who cries-I'm the person who-I think if there were a psycho-like- com-how do you say that? A competition of who cries the most in this world, I think I would be one of the...
COUNSELOR: Have you always...
PATIENT: I've been always like this. All my time.
COUNSELOR: Okay. As a kid, too?
PATIENT: Oh my God. I used to cry so much. In school, they used to make fun of me. And then they realized, she's sensitive. And they like me. But yeah, I've been so so so... and my mom's the same thing.
COUNSELOR: She's sensitive too?
PATIENT: Oh, she cries all the time. You tell her something and she starts crying. And you're like, "Mom! Don't cry!"
COUNSELOR: So let me ask you this, Marta. You mentioned earlier that when you found out your mom had cancer, you really couldn't' express your feelings because you had to be strong. So as a person, as you say a person is made up to sensitive and tender heart and these sorts of things. How did that work out, I mean, you're a sensitive person but you had to be strong. [0:37:36.5]
PATIENT: I don't-yeah. That's that, like... I don't know. I'm always trying to e the strong person and I'm really sensitive. But I think I can deal with being strong for short periods of time. And then I just start crying and crying. I think I'm all-I've been always like that. I can play the strong role, being a strong person. But for a
about:srcdoc Page 63 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety
11/8/25, 6:54 PM
short period of time. I cannot be-because yeah, I'm very sensitive. COUNSELOR: What does that look like when you're the strong person? PATIENT: How does it look when I'm the strong person? COUNSELOR: Yeah. What does it look like?
PATIENT: How do I act or? COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I don't know. I'm not very nice, I think. Just kidding. I don't think-I can be really strong. I can be... I don't know.
COUNSELOR: What does it mean to be really strong? I'm just trying to get a picture of... PATIENT: Of what?
COUNSELOR: Of what that looks like for you. Because people have different definitions of being strong. And I'm just trying to get a picture of what it looks like, or what it looks for you.
PATIENT: I don't know. For example with all my brother's stuff? I have to tell my parents I'm leaving the house. And I left my house. So they would just call me on the phone and... I tried to be as strong as possible so they understand how the bad the situation was. I would never cry. I cry a lot. But I never cry. Or like I would... I don't know. Yeah, I can I told them you have to go to therapy. I can... I don't know. How can I describe how strong. I don't know how to describe that. [0:39:46.3]
COUNSELOR: So, so far, [I guess] (ph) what you're saying-to be strong for you, means that you don't cry. You're able to... be a...
PATIENT: Or handle really strong situations. With my thesis in college, it was not working. So I had to go and I started doing it with volunteers. People who were giving me the samples. I-it was not working. So I had to get bigger samples. I was trying to make a graph for mouth-health. Like mucosa. Palaton (ph) mucosa. And so it was not working because the samples were really small from the gum in the back. So it was not working. So I had to I had to get big samples. So I had to go and work with dead people.
COUNSELOR: Oh wow.
PATIENT: For six months. And I've never seen anyone dead-I used to get really shocked with dead animals. I would see a dead mouse and I was just like before that-I would cry and get but then I had to do my thesis. And I had to do my research. So I was like, "Okay. Suck it up. You have to do this. " Because I talked with my advisor and basically I'm like, "Are you sure you want me to do this?" and she's like, "You need to graduate." So I had to start working with dead people. And this was like-
COUNSELOR: So in other words, whatever you had to do, that's what you'd do.
COUNSELOR: It was bad. It was like, "Ugh." But on the other side, it helped me a lot to kind of enjoy life and understand. Because you go to these places. I used to go to the crime labs. Where they do the alpha-
about:srcdoc Page 64 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
autopsies of people who died in car accidents or because someone shot someone else. Or really disgusting things. Not because someone died because they were sick or a heart attack, no. It was the creepiest thing you can imagine of a big city. It's like working in Detroit. In a morgue. [0:41:59.6]
And then... I also had to go to the transplant things? When someone dies in a car accident and they donate the organs. So people who die in car accidents in Lisbon or people my age who were drinking and driving. Or things like that. So it's looking at people that are you-that could be your brother, your friend. I don't know. That was bad. But I mean, it helped me appreciate life. And I look at that well. For six months working surrounded by dead people. It's like, "Oh my God. You have to enjoy this life. Because there's only one." And no matter who you are or what you do or where do you come from, you end up on a table.
COUNSELOR: Regardless. [0:42:56.7]
PATIENT: So it was, uh. That was wrong. (ph)
COUNSELOR: Now at one point did you have this experience? You said...
PATIENT: It was my last year in college. We have to do thesis in undergrad. Like an undergraduate thesis. So it was, it was hard. It was really bad. But it was. Then I was stronger. I was like-if I-and then, it was always 3 am on a Thursday night or a Friday night. They would just call, "We have a patient, somewhere in the city. You have if you want your samples, you have to come and grab it. And wait for the whole surgery."
COUNSELOR: Where you present for all that? Or... PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: You were there for the surgeries?
PATIENT: Yeah. I always-I've always believed in donating organs. So I'm I have in my license 'Donate your organs and tissues.' I don't think you will-I don't know. I think in some cultures. I was talking to a Chinese friend. And they don't-they think that you need all your organs and everything for after you die. I always-I've always said, even before the work. I always said in my-if something can happen anyone else. Like a kid, heart. Well, what Kidneys, heart. You know just-I'm not going to take these anywhere. I'm not bringing. Well, to the worms in the ground. [0:44:29.5]
So in the surgeries. They are-I thought they were worse. They actually are tons of people trying to rescue a kidney or trying to rescue-because you know there's someone in another hospital that needs it. So the surgeries were-they were the worst part I had to do. Which was opening them up and grabbing the-even the doctors were like, "Ewe, how can you do that." It was so good. But oh well. What I really never liked was the autopsies. It was like being in a butt-cher (ph)-how do you say that?
COUNSELOR: Butcher.
PATIENT: Like that. So.
COUNSELOR: Well it's a very interesting experience that you had. [0:45:21.4]
PATIENT: Yes. I think it's-you really appreciate life. And you start looking at life like I'm here to enjoy this. To do whatever I want. There's... yeah.
about:srcdoc Page 65 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
COUNSELOR: How did that impact you during that time of your life? That experience.
PATIENT: I think it was like-the first time I went there, so I've never seen anyone dead. Not even in my family. We don't do the open-
COUNSELOR: Caskets.
PATIENT: Caskets in the funerals. I'd never seen anyone dead. So I had to go there by myself. Which is in the downtown-right downtown, right next to the worst places. Where-there's a street there was, because they're trying to eradicate it. A street in Lisbon which is full of but full, where all the drugs are, and all the homeless people go. Drug addicts. People say if you walk down the street, you'll never make it to the other end. I don't think anyone here in the United States can imagine how bad it is. You don't want to. You don't-it's like-let's say two blocks of hundreds and hundreds of homeless drug addicts.
(audio gap)
PATIENT: For eight autopsies at the same time. And it's like-and it smells awful. And then all types of people were dead on those tables. And I was the only helper. I was by myself. No one was there. So the technicians that helped doing all the autopsies. Because there are so many-you cannot have a doctor doing-all the doctors. Because there are so many dead in this place.
And there were all types of people. An old lady, an old guy, a kid, a homeless person, a rich per-anyone that dies in an accident, whatever. So it doesn't matter who you are or where you come from. You will end up on that table. And they will treat you the same way. And the technicians and the doctors were really nice. They were like "Oh! You should come and see this. It is really interesting." So they were showing me the stuff. And I was like, "Am I sure what I'm looking?
COUNSELOR: (laughs) [0:47:38.9]
PATIENT: So it's like, "Look at ." So you appreciate that they treat you so well because they're going to have to do it this for me. You know, like I asked them favor. And they're like, "Oh, you should see this! Look at the size of this liver." Or "Look the bullet in the brain." And you're like "What?" So after that I was like-I couldn't eat for meals.
COUNSELOR: I was going to ask if it affected your lifestyle or just your [lack of sleep] (ph) and then, you know...
PATIENT: And then they do-when they open the cape-the rib cage, I don't know how to-yeah. So it looks like the ribs you eat in a restaurant. And I was like, "I will never eat ribs again." So it's like-"Oh my God." Yeah. But it's good because you realize-doesn't matter who you are or who you think you are. It's like-life is just one. You have to enjoy it. Do whatever you want. Because you can die tomorrow.
COUNSELOR: Are there things that, with that realization that life is what you make it, you have to enjoy it, you have to, you know. Did you do things differently or go about doing things differently?
PATIENT: Yeah, I think I did. Yeah, I think I did. I really started focusing on what I wanted to do. Stop trying-I don't know. Sometimes you always compare yourself with other people-"Oh well, this person got this." "He or she had this." I think after that, I was-I'm so lucky that I have this life. A home and food. I don't-
about:srcdoc Page 66 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
I'm not on the table today. Or I'm not the family. So this is the place where everyone goes-how do you say that, John Doe? Is that how you guys
COUNSELOR: Yeah, John Doe. [0:49:29.2]
PATIENT: How you guys call it here? In Col-so all the people, all the families go there and ask for the missing. And then suddenly realize your-whatever person can be there. So one day I woke up. I had to go there 6 am and my brother didn't show up for the whole day. So my mom was crying. And then she tells me, "See if your brother is there." And I'm like, "What?" I'm not going to. So I was like, I'm not going to get into that room without asking before. So I went to the lady who where the people go and ask. So it's like, "Don't tell me you have someone this description, this age." And she's like, "No, we don't." It's like, okay, so I can get in.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: And my brother showed up in the afternoon that day. COUNSELOR: That must have been a difficult feeling, just...
PATIENT: That was bad. I-no-I mean, I was concerned. But I knew that I had to ask first. And that I couldn't put a lot of crap in my head before the actual thing. But that was hard. My mom was like, "now that you're going there. You should ask if your brother is there. If he's-I don't know where he is for like..." He was partying for two days. But yeah. That was hard. That was. And also I learned not to drink and drive.
COUNSELOR: Oh, okay. [0:51:03.6]
PATIENT: It's like, yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay, Marta, we have to go ahead and end.
PATIENT: Yeah, I have to go. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Next week is Thanksgiving. So we'll be closed Wednesday, Thursday and Friday. Not sure if you wanted to come Monday or Tuesday of next week?
PATIENT: Yeah. Tuesday?
COUNSELOR: That's good for you?
PATIENT: Or Monday after I have a lunch with a speaker in the college pharmacy until one.
COUNSELOR: Okay, until one? Let's say 3:00?
PATIENT: Yeah. If for any reason my boss tries to schedule any meeting with the speaker, can I call you so we can see if like...?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Have the meeting later that day, or something like that?
about:srcdoc Page 67 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety
11/8/25, 6:54 PM
COUNSELOR: That may work.
PATIENT: Because sometimes my boss is like that. He's very Portuguese in that sense. COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Oh that's something we have to talk about (ph) my boss.
COUNSELOR: [What is it?] (ph) Your boss? Okay.
PATIENT: Yeah, he's just too many lately.
COUNSELOR: Okay we'll definitely have to talk about that.
PATIENT: So on Monday afternoon, I'll tell you about something. Bye. COUNSELOR: (laughs) Okay Marta. Take care.
END TRANSCRIPT
TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: 11-29. Marta Quinn. Therapist Betty Johnson.
PATIENT: (inaudible at 0:00:07.6) So I went there. It was nice.
COUNSELOR: Good. So what about you and your ex-boyfriend?
PATIENT: It was okay. We talked a lot. He told that he was-he wanted to come back together with me. And I told him that I didn't.
COUNSELOR: Good.
PATIENT: And that I didn't want to have the same relationship from before and so. Yeah, we talked a lot. We've been talking about it a lot. So I think-I mean, yeah. I don't want-I don't want to be again with him, same type of relation. And I tell him. It's okay. So that is-I mean, it's difficult, but I tell him. And he told me he wanted to be my friend. He really had a lot of feelings for me and that what that. He didn't want-he didn't like the idea that I just cancelled him. And I told him I needed that time and space to be away from him. So that's okay.
COUNSELOR: So you were assertive with him. Let him know, "This is what I needed." [0:01:15.5]
PATIENT: He's like, "Why did you erase me from everything?" It's like, "I needed that. I needed to be away and learn how to be by myself. And not be afraid of being lonely." So it was okay. But the bad part-the bad news this week was that my aunt, my mom's oldest sister? She got breast cancer. So and it's really advanced. They don't know if it went other places. I mean, they-the doctor told her that it's not spread. But they started
  about:srcdoc Page 68 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
the chemo on Monday.
And she went to the doctor on Thursday, I guess, or Friday? Thursday, Friday. And they started the chemo that Monday. So my mom is freaked out. She's really sad. And she had this problem in her stomach. In Portugal we get a lot of parasites. Sometimes the water is not the best. So I think she has that. But then she doesn't want to go to the doctor because she thinks they're going to tell her she has stomach cancer. So I was talking to her today
COUNSELOR: Who was this now? This is your mom? [0:02:32.0] PATIENT: My mom.
COUNSELOR: Oh, okay.
PATIENT: She was really-she's really depressed and sad that my aunt has breast cancer. So my mom has this problem in her stomach and she thinks it's stomach cancer. And I had to tell her, "No, it's not. It's just parasites." And she's like, "I don't want to go to the doctor because the doctor will tell me something is really wrong." And I'm like, "You have to go to the doctor."
It's like-when you go or you're in a car and you have a car accident. And then you don't go out again of your house because something might happen. I told her, "No. You have to-you have to go to the doctor. It can get really bad if you don't go to the doctor." So it's been-it has been really hard this week.
My boss is acting like a maniac. And he is like-he's telling me that-I don't know. One day, I was doing something that I really don't know how to you, because my background is not in computer sciences. And I was he wanted me to do something and I was not-it took me one month. Less than one month-three month- three weeks to get all the software from all the companies and really knowing what I needed to do.
And then I found out that I needed to write a code and I'm not trained for that. He knows that I don't know how to program. So I told him, "This doesn't work because I don't know how to do it." So he came to the lab and he's like, "You have to leave your personal life away from the lab." And I'm like, "What are you talking about?" He's like, "You get depressed and then you stop working." It's like, "No, it's just that I'm not trained to write a code." [0:04:10.5]
COUNSELOR: What would give him that impression that you were depressed- (crosstalk)
PATIENT: I don't know. He's crazy. (ph)
COUNSELOR: And you don't-
PATIENT: Oh, because I told him that I was frustrated because I couldn't do the work. So he's like, "You have to be cold." I didn't tell him anything else. He comes to the lab once a week. He doesn't know anything about my life. I haven't told. He's like, "You need to write a code. You need to make that work."
COUNSELOR: Do you think any other things that are going on in your personal life affect your job performance? Or affects the way you work?
about:srcdoc Page 69 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
PATIENT: I don't think. I don't know. Right now. I don't know. And yeah, so I thought he was like my like, "Oh my God. My life is affecting my job." But then my lab mate, she had to do a seminar. And she asked him if she could do the seminar by-in May. So he said, "Yeah. Yeah." So he scheduled all the seminars and he gave her February 15. And she's like-so she went-she talked to him and she's like, "I asked you to give me a late date, in May."
He comes to the lab and started yelling. "You guys don't appreciate anything I do for you. It's an honor to give a seminar. And if you don't want to do it, Christina, it's okay. " And she's like, "I have to do it. I want to do it. I just asked for a later date." But he didn't care. He just started yelling at her, like she didn't want to do the seminar. She's like, "I asked you before. You said 'yes'. And now you're yelling at me because I said that I wanted May and not in February?"
So at the beginning I thought that he told me I couldn't get frustrated with my work. And I had to be cold, no emotions in the lab. Then I understand that the guy is crazy. I mean, it's not that I-[ 0:05:59.2]
COUNSELOR: What kind of emotions do you typically display in a lab?
PATIENT: Nothing. I just told him that I was frustrated because my work was going-I wasn't getting any-I didn't get any results. That's the only thing I told him. Anything else. And he starts yelling at everyone in the lab. It's like a... And then-yeah. I don't know. He's like-and he called me into his office. And it was so funny because again, he left his door open. Three weeks ago was when he called me and gave me a bonus for being a good worker. And he closed the door. This time he left the door open. And it's like, "Oh my God. He's going to start yelling."
COUNSELOR: And did he? PATIENT: Hm?
COUNSELOR: did he start yelling?
PATIENT: No, he started talking really loud. You have to work harder. You have to put the energy. Otherwise I'll have to do your work. And then if I do your work, I cannot do my job. I told him. And then he's like, starting giving me more work. And he's like, "This is really easy, Marta. If you cannot do this, you don't-" I don't remember the words he used.
But he-the thing is he was saying, "I gave this easy job so you can do something. Because you cannot do the hard work." He knows I'm a pharmacist. I'm not a stupid computer science person. It's not that I learn how to do it and I cannot do it right now. No, I'm a pharmacist. I learned different stuff. I'm learning this. So he cannot pretend-[ 0:07:31.6]
COUNSELOR: So it seems like his expectations are unreasonable or...
PATIENT: Yeah, I think his expectations are cra-I mean. And he sends me this e-mail and half the e-mail is with capital letters. "You need to do it. You need to learn how to do it. You cannot just leave your work halfway." And it's like, "I didn't-I..." I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Let me ask you this, Marta. When did you find out about your aunt, and then your mother?
PATIENT: Last Saturday. But he yelled at me Friday or Thursday.
about:srcdoc Page 70 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
COUNSELOR: Okay, so this was before you found out. Okay. Okay.
PATIENT: No, I mean-I told. He yelled at me because I told him I was frustrated because my work. I wasn't getting any good results. And then he made-created a whole theory about it. I don't know. I think he's crazy. I don't want to stay here working with him. He's a roller coaster of emotions. One day, he's really nice and gives you money. And tells me that I'm the best. And next day, he just tells me that I don't-I mean-that I'm useless. I don't know. I don't want to-I'm -
COUNSELOR: What does it feel like, being... [0:08:48.5]
PATIENT: I-it feels-it feels bad.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:08:50.7)
PATIENT: I don't know how to-I don't know what he's going to say. I don't know how he's going to act. COUNSELOR: So kind of like walking-have you heard the term 'walking on egg shells', around here? PATIENT: Yeah. We have the same one in Spanish.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Yeah. It's...
COUNSELOR: What is it in Spanish? For... how do you say it in Spanish?
PATIENT: [Caminar en c scaras de huevo] (ph) is the same thing.
COUNSELOR: Okay. And it's like you don't know what his mood is going to be next time around?
PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah, so-and, okay. So after he yelled at my lab mate. He comes in the lab. It's like, ""You can leave whenever you want. If you want to graduate tomorrow, you will graduate tomorrow." And she's like, "What? I have to do a bunch of stuff before I graduate." He's crazy. He's like-he has problems. And he comes to the lab and makes us feel like, I don't know.
COUNSELOR: What kinds of things do you say to yourself? PATIENT: Sorry?
COUNSELOR: I was asking, what kinds to you end up saying to yourself as you're listening to these things you're . (inaudible at 0:09:53.8)
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: No-but-that's the problem. When he starts telling me this stuff, I start thinking, "Oh my God. Yeah. Perhaps I didn't work enough this week. I only worked from 8:30 to 6:30. I should stay here. I work harder. I should do this. I should do that." And then-and this happened for a couple of days. And then I realized that.
And like, no. The guy's crazy. He cannot manipulate. I'm not a PhD-I mean, I'm not a graduate student yet.
about:srcdoc Page 71 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
I'm just learning and working. And new something that is really new for me. And it's really new for him and he shouldn't be yelling at me like that. If I were doing something but I was trained. And I was doing it for a couple of years? Okay. But it's something he doesn't even know how to do. And it's not how I feel. It's like, why the hell am I doing that? [0:10:46.4]
(crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:10:46.4)
PATIENT: I don't have a problem learning. I love to study. And I love that I love to learn. The problem is that he expects-I don't know what he expects. I don't-it's crazy.
COUNSELOR: Sounds like-is he driving you crazy or making you crazy?
PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah. Every time-and it's the same thing. It's like, I start from zero with him. It's like I say, I'll just forget everything he said. He's nice for a while and then he gets crazy. And then starts yelling at us. And starts doing crazy stuff. I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Okay. So let me ask you this, Marta. If you didn't work for this gentleman, what are your options?
PATIENT: Go back to Portugal. Yeah. I don't know. I haven't even looked for a different job. It's like-I don't know how the city is-I don't know how-because I don't know how it is, really. I talked to a couple of people before, and professors from other universities, and they said, "You just have to suck it up and work for him. You need the experience and you need the recommendation letters to be able to get into grad school."
COUNSELOR: Right. So it sounds like if you don't continue to work with him, you go back to Portugal. [0:12:10.1]
PATIENT: And then I get stuck there. I don't even have a chance to do- (crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:12:12.5) go to grad school?
PATIENT: Grad school. But I was thinking that if I get accepted into another-I don't know what to do if I don't get accepted into another school. I don't even know if I-if it's worth it to... to stay. (cries) Like I told you before, it's like grad school is hard enough. I think the research is hard enough. The classes are hard enough. Just to have a crazy-but your boss is the meanest person in the-
COUNSELOR: Yeah, there's a lot of other stresses that just come along with being in the program and being [that's enough] (ph) to have.
PATIENT: So I just think that if I get into any other place, I'll just go somewhere else. But if I don't get into any other place, I don't know what I'm going to do. I don't know-I would need to talk to professors here. Because they always tell me that-that if I want to stay in Michigan and work with a different person I can do it.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Well there's an option, right? [0:13:08.9]
about:srcdoc Page 72 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
PATIENT: Yeah, but the program is so small. There are only eight professors in the program. And the program is so small that I don't know if-I don't know how easy it would be to... Because he takes everything really personally. Like I told you before
(crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
PATIENT: He had-he had post-docs. And he fought with them. And now all he says "Oh, post-docs are the worst. I would never have a post-doc again. And they always fight. They don't do their job."
COUNSELOR: But if you went to work with someone else, would that be your issue what he's saying in his (inaudible at 0:13:46.7)?
PATIENT: No no, the problem is that he might be there during-okay, so students have to give seminars to the whole department, twice. They also have to do data sessions and committee members. And yeah, he might not have to be in my committee but he would be in the seminars and the defense and things like that. And he takes everything too personally. He really thinks that, I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Would you trust the rest of the folks who are in the seminar or who have to do the-to be an advisor (ph), for the defense and those things. Do you trust them enough that they wouldn't allow him to...
PATIENT: I don't know. I don't know the other professors that well. I don't know. I think
COUNSELOR: Have you talked to any of the other students to get a read on the people that (inaudible at 0:14:39.4).
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: Yeah. My lab mate Christina. She says that if I stay in Michigan, I shouldn't-what, I shouldn't... I shouldn't work for anyone else. That I should work for him.
COUNSELOR: That you should work with this guy that you're working with now? And what is her rationale behind saying that, for example?
PATIENT: That it would be really bad to. To work for it would look really bad to work. But Christina is someone who cares a lot about what other people say. She's a really nice person. She smiles to everyone. She really cares a lot about what other people say. But other people, other students, they tell me, "You don't have to work for him. You can go work somewhere else." So I don't know. I think it's confusing.
COUNSELOR: [I think] (ph) that's a lot to think about, a lot to weigh.
PATIENT: I think-I don't know how life is going to be, if I don't get into another school. That would be the easiest thing. Just go somewhere else and tell him that I just-I want to leave because of the weather or something stupid.
COUNSELOR: Rather than tell him that you really don't enjoy working with him.
PATIENT: Oh I would love to tell him. But I don't know if it would be worth-worth it to fight with him. I
about:srcdoc Page 73 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
don't know.
COUNSELOR: Let me ask you this, Marta. How were you able to tell your boyfriend, I mean your ex- boyfriend, "This is...I don't want this. I didn't like this. This is what I needed to do for myself." How were able to tell him that in such a matter-of-fact and confident way.
PATIENT: I'm sorry, I'm lost. If I would be able to tell my boss that I don't want to work for him? COUNSELOR: Well just like you -
PATIENT: You mean I did with my boyfriend? [0:16:21.7]
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: The thing is-I have so many bad feelings that I'm afraid one of these days I'll just explode and tell him how mean he is. Every day I talk to him, I have to close my mouth. But but the things is, our how do you say, the pharmaceutical science group? Is so small. They know-he knows a lot of other people. There are a lot of connections. So I don't know if he would make my life impossible after... I don't know. I just...
COUNSELOR: I guess I'm wondering what is different about-what's been-
PATIENT: Oh, but this is my-
COUNSELOR: How have you been able to share your feelings and your thoughts. And certainly with your ex-boyfriend, to really communicate your needs and what you didn't like and what you needed for yourself. How were you able to do that?
PATIENT: And not with my boss? COUNSELOR: And not with your boss. Yeah.
PATIENT: I think it's because I always think about my future. And I always think that this guy is crazy. My ex-boyfriend was not crazy. He was not the nicest-well, he was nice. But he was not what I needed, you know. But I think this guy is crazy. I don't think this guy is-his personal skills are zero.
COUNSELOR: So what would be the worst things that can happen if you were to communicate to him what you need in him? What you wanted things like? [0:17:48.0]
PATIENT: I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Have you imagined it at all?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: Have you imagined what that would look like?
PATIENT: No, I just... I don't know. No, I haven't imagined what he would do. At all. I just-the only thing he wouldn't do it like a normal person. Like if someone comes to me and tells me, "I don't want to work for you because you blah blah blah blah." I don't know. I don't think he would act like a normal person.
about:srcdoc Page 74 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
COUNSELOR: A normal person would act like what.
PATIENT: I don't know like-just don't take things that personal. Accept the criticism. There are fits (ph) in life, like in work and personal relationships.
(crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: So how do you take care of yourself? PATIENT: Hm?
COUNSELOR: I guess I'm wondering, how do you take care of yourself. Because I see how you've in a couple instances, you've shared with me how you've talked to your mom and told her that you can't be her Kleenex. That was an example of you taking care of yourself. You're communicating assertively what your needs were to take care of yourself. This ex-boyfriend wants to get back with you and you're like, "No, I need that space. It's not where I want." You're taking care of yourself.
PATIENT: Yeah, but in work I don't.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. How do you how do you-how does that affect, you think. If you're not taking care of yourself and you're putting up with a lot of the badgering or the things that are making, you said, inadequate and second guessing your abilities. You have to walk on these eggshells, and to be heard. [But the way,] (ph) when are going to take care of yourself. [0:19:27.5]
PATIENT: I don't tell anything to him. I just. I don't know. I don't know what I did. COUNSELOR: Let's just pretend for a moment. Let's pretend that I'm your boss. PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: What's his name? Just his first name?
PATIENT: He's this is another thing that. I don't know. I think this is stupid of me. But it just makes me (groans). He's from Portugal, you know that. His name is Stephan.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Oh I remember you telling me.
PATIENT: That he denies that he's from Portugal. So he changed his name to Steve. And he says-he never meant. I don't know. I'm really proud of my culture and my country, perhaps. He's the opposite. He doesn't even talk about it. He just says bad things. So his name is Steve, not Stephan. So yeah. His name is Steve. What would I tell him? [0:20:31.2]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, let's pretend like I'm him. What if you could say... PATIENT: Anything? I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Anything about losing your job, or about him making it tough for you when you these sorts of things. What would you tell him?
about:srcdoc Page 75 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety
11/8/25, 6:54 PM
PATIENT: Hm. I don't know. I would tell him that he needs to be.. COUNSELOR: Well think...think about ....
PATIENT: That he needs to be less...
COUNSELOR: Talk to me. I'm Steve.
PATIENT: I don't know how to do this. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: What does Steve do. I'm not...
PATIENT: That you need to be less emotional. Measure your words. COUNSELOR: Marta, come into my office. I've got something to talk to you about. PATIENT: I don't know. Yeah. You need to be more...
COUNSELOR: Do you sound that way?
PATIENT: Hm?
COUNSELOR: Are you going to start out that way?
PATIENT: Oh no. I don't know how to do this, sorry.
COUNSELOR: Why don't you come into my office and we'll talk. Like you had something you wanted to say to me or share with me. I didn't like the way you did that one program. You know, you should be able to do this. Why can't you do this? I'm going to give somebody else if you can't do the work the way you're supposed to.
PATIENT: (laughs)
COUNSELOR: This is my time. I can't do your work for you. I got my own stuff to do.
PATIENT: I'm not trained in this. I learned-I'm learning how to do this so you can't expect me to do this really fast. I don't know what I'd say. [0:22:28.4]
COUNSELOR: Imagine your boyfriend's face on his face. Not even
PATIENT: I don't know. I think it also is the language barrier. I don't know how to say things politely without hurting someone else's feelings.
COUNSELOR: Well right now you're taking care of yourself. And he can't do anything to you. He can't fire you. He can't do anything. So even if it comes out, don't worry about grammar. Don't worry about the right words. Don't worry about his feelings at this point. I just want you to just dump that. And maybe not to me- we've got a bumpy chair you can pretend like he is sitting over there. Whatever works for you. Just if you have to speak it in Spanish, do that. Whatever. What would it sound like. What would it look like.
about:srcdoc Page 76 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
PATIENT: You need to be a nicer person. You cannot hurt people's feelings. And just because you are a professor here, you cannot just hurt-do things. Tell other people that they don't work when they're working. You cannot just take make conclusions of those things you because sometimes it's not what is happening. And you need for being successful, you need to have people that work for you. And if you're not nice, you're not going to have people in your lab. (cries) [0:24:18.4]
COUNSELOR: What's coming up for you? What's going on? Why are you crying?
PATIENT: (cries) I just hate to be in the position that you don't have other options.
COUNSELOR: Sure [that's hard] (ph), Marta. What is that like? It sounds like you love what you do.
PATIENT: Yeah, I really like to do research, really like science. But being in a situations like this, you know. Where I'm not sure if I'm getting so much. And it just makes me-it's a huge effort. It just makes me think that if it's worth it. If I would ever be good enough to... I mean, it's a lot of pressure. And I just... don't sometimes I don't know if it's worth it or not. I mean if it's just not better to go back. [0:26:09.4]
COUNSELOR: Better to back to Portugal? PATIENT: M-hm.
COUNSELOR: You know..
PATIENT: Because my hands are tied here. It's like I'm a slave because I depend. I depend on him and I depend on this position to be able to be here and to go to grad school. It's not like-it's like, "I'm sick of you." and then I go and find myself another position. Because I cannot do it. It's really hard-A) I needed the recommendation letter so I couldn't change. I just couldn't go and change jobs. Now I could start a new job, but I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Well let's try and brainstorm a way possibly that you..
PATIENT: But I've been doing-I've been trying to brainstorm and find ways to-I don't know. To go.
COUNSELOR: Okay maybe we can brainstorm ways of how to talk with Steve. In a way where you're not hurting his feelings. Where you're not causing him to want to fire you or send you back. And there's there are ways to communicate your needs and your feelings. And your opinions and your experiences without pushing people away. Or without making them dislike you or without disrupting things. Because the reality is, you do need his recommendation letter, right? [0:28:00.1]
PATIENT: He already gave them to me. COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: But he can-I don't know if he could- COUNSELOR: He can resend it or take it back- (crosstalk)
about:srcdoc
Page 77 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
PATIENT: Or do something crazy. I don't know. And I haven't applied to Michigan. I need to apply to Michigan. That's the thing. It's like, I need to apply to Michigan. And I don't even find the energy to apply to the school here. It's always like, would I really be able to stay here? I don't know if I want to stay here. I don't know if it's
COUNSELOR: When is the Michigan deadline for it. PATIENT: February 1st.
COUNSELOR: February 1st, okay. So this guy has gotten you so worked up that you don't what to go to Michigan now?
PATIENT: Yeah, I want to work for him.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: So yeah. So which for me, it's not working for him and staying in Michigan. It's not compatible. COUNSELOR: Right because of the small department. [0:28:56.0]
PATIENT: Ah because one day he came to our lab and told us that he wasn't getting any new students because we were saying bad things about him. I'm like, "What? We don't have to say anything. You can just- you do your own stuff and people know that you're crazy."
COUNSELOR: Because it's obvious, Marta, that you love what you do. You don't want to-you would like to go back to Portugal to be with your family. That's not-
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: But I don't want to go and learn their-I don't want to do their-I don't want to do my PhD there. COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: And I know that if I want to go back and teach there, and do research there, it would be not even better for me. But for like people I'm going to teach there to get educated here and bring all my knowledge there. I mean it's not-it's not only because I want it. It think it's also because it's more useful for-you know like.
COUNSELOR: You can help others in a way. (ph) Sure. That's a big responsibility. So it sounds like there's pressure from different[0:29:55.2]
PATIENT: Yeah, but it I wouldn't like to go there and do a PhD there.
COUNSELOR: Right. But to go back and bring your knowledge and your wisdom that you obtained.
PATIENT: I would love to do that. To get trained here. Go to graduate school here. Learn all what I can, and then if I want to go back, I will go back. If I don't want to go back, I'll just stay here. But...
COUNSELOR: But at least you have that avenue of training.
about:srcdoc Page 78 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: But I want to go to grad school here. I don't know. I don't want to-I don't want to go to New York because I don't think in New York the grad schools are as good as here.
COUNSELOR: Okay, so you don't want to do those things? If you had your sights set on doing grad school here, there is nothing that should be able to stop you from doing that. Right? And sometimes, Marta, when we have a goal or something in front of us and that we want really bad, sometimes obstacles and things present themselves. Have you ever seen hurdles before? Like track races? And they have around the track, they are runners and they jump over these things.
PATIENT: Yeah. [0:30:52.6]
COUNSELOR: You know, that's kind of like what life's course is like. We have this track that we have to run around. But sometimes there are hurdles that we have to jump over in order to get to the finish line. And where we're trying. You know, and so you have this goal to-
(audio gap)
COUNSELOR: You have this goal to get this graduate degree. You have this goal to get educated in the States. You have this goal to maybe one day go back to Portugal and teach with this degree and things that you've done. And you have these hurdles that keep presenting themselves. You have a situation with your boyfriend and the break up. That could have been a hurdle. You have this crazy, you know, boss and advisor, right? You have, you know, dealing with your mom's situation. And your family situation and dealing with that loneliness. That's a hurdle. Right?
Sometimes life presents different hurdles that we have to cross, but that doesn't mean when we fall and not continue to go toward that. Right? You know, just trying to find ways to muster up enough energy to get over these particular hurdles. And what they use in track terminology, they clear the hurdle. Sometimes they even kick them down to go over to the next one. You know it's like psshhh and then go on to the next one. Psshh and go on to the next one. That's kind of how you have to look at this stuff. And it's difficult going through. Because sometimes the hurdles bounce back up and hit the runner. (laughs) You know? You think you're clearing it, and you're not really having cleared it. It's still really-it's still there. And there are ways to do that. [0:32:35.7]
So there's a way to get over this hurdle, this boss, that we can talk about. So that you don't have to give up your whole life's dream, to do it. One thing I was thinking about is that sometimes when you want to communicate concerns that you have with a person, Sometimes you begin by saying everything that you like about the person. Or everything you like about the experience before you give them some of the negative things.
So saying like, you know, "Steve, I want to just sit and talk with you for a moment. I want to thank you for allowing me this opportunity. I'm learning a whole lot from you. There's some great things that you have taught me as an advisor. And you know, I can really see myself doing something in this career because of what you have taught me and shared with me." And things like that. "I really like what I'm doing. I really love this opportunity. And I don't want to do anything to jeopardize that. And I just want to know, what can I do to learn more." Do something like that.
about:srcdoc Page 79 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
And then say, "But in order for me to really take advantage of this opportunity. There are some concerns I have that are preventing me from doing that. Sometimes I feel that you can be mean to me. And I understand that you're an advisor and you have a lot of work to do. And you need to have things in order. Or you have everything right. But sometimes when you talk to me about things, mistakes I've made or things I've done. Sometimes it hurts my feelings the way I hear you saying it. And I want to be able to work with you. But in order for me to do that, I need to feel like I am respected and that you value my work. And that you want me here." [0:34:39.5]
So in that way, it's about 'I feel' this way. It's not you need to this. And you do this. And you make me- because when you use 'you' a lot? That's when a person gets defensive and wants to fight back and everything else. But if you bring it to him, you were still telling him how he treats you and you don't like it. But it's more how you're feeling-so "I feel. I see. "I think." Do you see what I'm saying? [0:35:08.7]
PATIENT: Mm-hm. Yeah. I'm just kind of.
COUNSELOR: You know so there are ways to communicate even the worst things to people without putting it in a way that they'll be put off by it. And that's a part of-when you start doing your dissertation, Marta, you're going to have to do a lot of negotiating with the chief research and whoever that you're working with. And so, to be able to do that and deal with that conflict, that's a part of the graduate study experience. And it's easier said than done. Right? I can say all these things, but to actually go through and do it, it's still challenging. Because you don't know how that person is going to respond.
You're still thinking about your job, still thinking about how it may backfire or whatever the case-this person is really scary to talk to. And that's why it would be nice if we could do some role playing. You know what I'm saying? You know, that's like I was trying to do here. But give it some thought. If you could say anything to him, what would you say. Maybe like you said how sometimes you have all this stuff build up, you just want to spat it out? Spat it out in here. Get all that, the nasty stuff you want to say, just get it out in here. Right?
And then we can practice on how to actually communicate all these things without all the nasty things. So you don't (laughs) lose your job and your opportunity. You know what I'm saying? Because sometimes you do need to get that off your chest. You need to call him a couple of bad words, or whatever-it's okay. Do that. Because this is a safe space to do that. But then we can practice on how do you-okay.
Communicate these same feelings and thoughts in a way that would be beneficial for you. And him. Because this is your life's' dream. It is worth it. You asked the question, "Is going through all this worth it?" Sure, it's worth it! And you think you would really be over here in the US now, if it wasn't something that was meant for you to do and accomplish? No. So don't get discouraged, okay? It's worth it. [0:37:27.2]
And you're going to come-you know how, like diamonds? They have to-coal has to go through the fire, that pressure. You know, has to form and shape the things. You know? That's what this is happening-that's what this is about, right here. You know you're that gold forming to that diamond, so you're going to have to go through the pressure. But when it's all said and done, and you get that degree that you wanted. It you are going to look back and like, "Pshew, it was worth it."
And it's only going to make you a stronger it's only going to make you a better advisor to other students. Right? It depends on what perspective you take on this. Look at this, okay. "Now I know how I need to be when I'm supervising students." [0:38:16.0]
about:srcdoc Page 80 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
PATIENT: Yeah. Not like him. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: You know. So it just depends on what perspective. I know I talked a whole lot. So I apologize for that. What are you thinking?
PATIENT: No, I mean. It's.. yeah. I have to figure out how to talk to him. Yeah. Not only if I'm going to stay here, but if I'm going to leave, I think someone needs to tell him. The real thing, in a nice way. And you're right, I should just pray on me and.. that he needs to know that. I don't know, I just. He needs to know that. He needs to have people and needs to be nice with people.
COUNSELOR: You can even say, "I feel if-I feel that if you were nicer to people, you'll have a lot more people who will want to work with you."
PATIENT: Mm-hm. [0:39:19.9]
COUNSELOR: You know, instead of-
PATIENT: That's like people get scared. The first year-the first year students, they don't want. I mean, they don't want t o work for someone who is crazy for the next four years. They just pick someone else. And no one ever gets into the trouble of telling him why he's like, crazy. I mean that he's crazy and that's why he doesn't get any students. I guess that's how I've been thinking lately. That it's not worth it to fight with him. Or to get into... [0:39:56.2]
COUNSELOR: When it's making you misera-you don't have this. And you know what? It's not worth fighting with him and getting into a row. It's not.
PATIENT: No. But just telling him that he needs to calm down and be nicer and . But we've tried. I mean, one-the day he came to our lab and was like, "You guys don't cannot go and say bad things about me." We told him, "No, you need to be nicer with first year students." But no, I have to tell him that he needs to be nicer with everyone.
COUNSELOR: Right. And so now you can even begin with saying. You know, or in some way, begin by saying, "You know when we had that conversation about how we thought you should be nicer to first year students. We've been talking and kind of thinking about it. Thinking that maybe it would be nice if you were nicer to us as well. To all students." [0:40:46.6]
PATIENT: And yeah. I don't understand the system here. How can... He doesn't have any boss. He doesn't have anyone-
COUNSELOR: Anyone that you can be accountable, that he can be accountable to. That you can, you know, there's no one looking over his shoulder who (inaudible at 0:41:02.00.)
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: Yeah, no one tells him what's right or wrong, so.
COUNSELOR: Right. Sure.
PATIENT: You know, if there were someone who could tell him, "You need to be nicer with students. You
about:srcdoc Page 81 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
need to be nicer with staff people from the department." Everybody-no one likes him.
COUNSELOR: Let me ask you this, Marta. Do you think-if it is scary to talk to him face to face about these issues. Have you ever considered writing a letter?
PATIENT: I wrote him and when he told me I was sabotaging his work? And I did the same thing you said. I started this e-mail telling him that I really appreciated the opportunity that he gave me. That being able to come here was my dream. And I was like-and then I told him I made a mistake and it's not sabotage. So don't tell me-please don't-because I'm a really sensitive person.
Oh because that day, he told me I was doing sabotage and I just started crying in front of him. so it was like, "Oh, this was not good." So it's like, I'm really sensitive, so every time you say something like that. I just cry. So yeah. And that day he replied, "Yeah. I'm sorry." [0:42:13.7]
COUNSELOR: At least you had an apology, huh.
PATIENT: Yeah. But I should do the same thing every time he says crazy stuff. COUNSELOR: yeah.
PATIENT: Because I don't think that he ever, like he ever realizes.
COUNSELOR: Yeah and then maybe collect all your e-mails you have to send and put them all on his desk at one time. "You see all these things? This day, this day." You know, something to bring into his reality just how much he does that affects you. And you want to be able to work in an environment where you're appreciated, where you're valued. And if that people that you have working for you.
If the people that you have working for you, their morale is low, their job performance suffers as well. And so if he wants people to work more and do a good job, it's important for him to understand he has to create the environment where he's encouraging, uplifting, and motivating and respectful and, you know, all these things. The best way to-it's not the best practice if you want productivity from people to beat them down. [0:43:17.9]
PATIENT: Yeah. So I should do that. I should write an e-mail every time he says something like that.
COUNSELOR: And that's the way you take care of yourself. To be assertive and you know. And now you're trying to take control over your environment, instead of letting it dictate how you're going to feel and what you're going to do.
PATIENT: Yeah, because that's what's happening like that. It's just like, you're setting a bad mood. And he treats me like whatever he feels like.
COUNSELOR: So every time you start feeling the pressure and start thinking, "Is this worth it? What do I do, I don't have options." I want you to first think to yourself the reason why you're in this. Because sometimes we lost sight of why we're doing something? Sometimes when we bring it back to ourselves, it's like, okay. That's enough to kind of, sustain us through that time here. You know? If you-do you make collages at all? Have you ever done that before? Where you go through magazines and...
PATIENT: Oh, and you cut..
about:srcdoc Page 82 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
COUNSELOR: And you cut things out. Because sometimes what people do, they get like a poster board and something-a picture frame, piece of paper, whatever. And they cut out words and pictures. And images that remind them of their roles. Or what it is they're working on. Or what they want to accomplish. And those sorts of things. They glue it together and put it somewhere where they'll see it everything day.
PATIENT: That's what I'm going to do.
COUNSELOR: Even at your work station. There at work. Hang something up in your space or something or... you know. And just focus. So every time he [comes into the lab] (ph) you just turn around and look at that and say, "Okay. This is why I may be going through this. Because I'm trying to get to that." And it helps keep you focused on what's important. So you don't lose sight of it. And allow emotions and things distract you and deter you from that. Because that can be really easy.
You're tearing up again. Why? What's going on? [0:45:33.5]
PATIENT: No, it's that-that I feel like, oh my God. I've been thinking about it. How you're right-I've been thinking all this week like, is it even worth it? I mean. So yeah. I'm going to do a collage. I'm ready.
COUNSELOR: I would be interested in seeing it. If you bring it in, if you decide to do one. I'd be interested to see it.
PATIENT: (laughs) I will bring it, yeah.
COUNSELOR: It's framing your future with pictures and words. Somehow they say, what you see in front of you on a daily basis is sometimes what you're drawn, or what's drawn to you or you're drawn to it. So you have your goals and things in front of you on a daily basis and somehow, someway you are drawn to those things. Just by challenging obstacles and things that come up. So it can be really powerful, Marta. Okay.
PATIENT: Yeah. [0:46:34.7]
COUNSELOR: And kind of make up your mind, what do you want your work day. Before you even walk into that place with him. How do you want that day to look like. What do you want your interactions to look like. "This is going to be a good day. Stephan is going to be a wonderful boss today. He's going to treat me with respect." Just build yourself up and say those types of things before you even get in there. And you'll be surprised by how much of that actually happens throughout the day.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: All righty?
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Is it time for us to-yeah, yeah. So.
PATIENT: Okay, so I'll just do my collage.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: And I'll think we have lab meeting tomorrow. So I'll just, yeah. Do it for my lab meeting. (laughs)
about:srcdoc Page 83 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety
11/8/25, 6:54 PM
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: So we should schedule it?
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Let's do that. Next week is the seventh? Does that work out for you? PATIENT: The seventh. Yeah. Okay. At one?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, one o'clock.
PATIENT: Okay?
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Okay. Well, you get prepared for the snowing and...
END TRANSCRIPT
TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Consult with MP. Therapist Betty Johnson. COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: I forgot my collage. I made it.
COUNSELOR: Oh, did you make it! Okay.
PATIENT: I will bring I next week it. I had it. It was really nice. I had a lot of fun. And I told my lab mate that I was making one. And she looked at me, she's like, "With scissors and magazines?" And I was like, "Uh-huh. And she's like, "Huh." And the next day, she's like, "Well I made my own mental collage." And I was like, "Okay."
COUNSELOR: So did you take it into work or...?
PATIENT: No no no no. I just told her that I was doing it. No I did it at home. I left it there-I forgot. I have been so busy this week. I'm leaving tomorrow for the weekend. Going to New York.
COUNSELOR: Oh, okay.
PATIENT: To visit a friend. Tomorrow is my birthday and it's also his defense-thesis defense? So I'm going to go there and...
COUNSELOR: Well that's exciting. New haircut or?
PATIENT: Oh yeah. I always haircut my hair before my birthday. It's like my treat.
  about:srcdoc Page 84 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
COUNSELOR: Well good for you.
PATIENT: Yeah, I always do it. I really like to.
COUNSELOR: So you're going for the weekend?
PATIENT: Yeah. I'm leaving tomorrow morning and going to his defense. And then we're going to go and have dinner at a Portuguese restaurant.
COUNSELOR: Oh wonderful.
PATIENT: Oh yeah. And then-and then have-and then go to a party on Saturday. I don't know. And then go out to the city on Saturday too.
COUNSELOR: Now are you going home for Christmas? [0:01:49.8]
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay, when are you leaving?
PATIENT: On the 15th. And I'm coming back on the 14th.
COUNSELOR: Well that's a nice amount of time. How do you feel about going back to Portugal? PATIENT: Oh, I'm so happy. I'm kind of-there's just one and a half weeks, that's it! COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I'm so happy. I'm so happy and I'm planning what I'm going to do there. Now I have to go and visit my aunt, the one that has the cancer. They did the chemotherapy and I'm going to go-my other aunt. I'm going to go and visit my other aunt. I don' t know if I told you. She was married to this guy for I don't know how many years. For 30 years and-35 years and then he found himself another lady.
COUNSELOR: Oh, wow. "35 years I can't be married." [0:02:34.7]
PATIENT: So she was devastated to some-I think my family needs. So I'm going to go and visit them for a couple days. For three days. They live in another city so I'm flying there. That's all. I'm going to go I'm going to go out, have a lot of fun. Eat a lot of good food.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I'm so happy.
COUNSELOR: Well great.
PATIENT: Visit my friends. One of my friends is getting married on the 8th. Friends from high school. Really good friend. So I'm going to go to his wedding.
COUNSELOR: Well great. (inaudible at 0:03:11.4)
about:srcdoc Page 85 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety
11/8/25, 6:54 PM
PATIENT: Oh yeah. I have like a list in Excel. COUNSELOR: Well good!
PATIENT: Of the things that I want to do. COUNSELOR: Okay. Good for you, good for you. PATIENT: I'm really happy.
COUNSELOR: Well great. Hopefully that will work out for you and you'll have a good time. And you'll touch base with people. Something I want to tell you, too, before we get going further. I just wanted to let you know there have been some unexpected things that have come up in my own life and I will no longer be here.
PATIENT: Really? After today?
COUNSELOR: I have to leave. So, actually my last day here at the clinic is- PATIENT: Is today?
COUNSELOR: Oh no, not today. Is the 3rd of January though. And so I just wanted to let you know that. I've been really thinking about what therapist to transfer your case to, and I have one that I think will be perfect for you. She's a really wonderful therapist, very empathic, very compassionate and just really does good work. And I think, you know, that would be great for you, if you want to continue on.
PATIENT: Yeah, so when I come back next year, I just schedule an appointment with her.
COUNSELOR: Actually I wanted to know if next week before our appointment, on next week, if you wanted to be introduced to her.
PATIENT: Oh yeah. That would be nice.
COUNSELOR: What I can do is have her come in here for maybe another session.
PATIENT: Oh, that's nice.
COUNSELOR: Have introductions and then you all can work out from there what you do once you if you want to see her one time before you left. Or if you just want to wait until you came back.
PATIENT: No, I can come back.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Yeah.
PATIENT: Yeah. Are you moving out from Whitehall? Are you leaving? [0:05:15.6 ] COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah.
PATIENT: Oh.
about:srcdoc
Page 86 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
COUNSELOR: But everything's fine. I'm fine. It's just some things, come up and I don't want to burden you with all the details of it. But things happen and so I have to make this decision. So I'm fine. And things are great.
PATIENT: That's good.
COUNSELOR: So what are you, you having thoughts or...?
PATIENT: No, I something really strange happened yesterday. I was analyzing this data from a student at MSU. She works with a professor there that, we have a collaboration with them. And she sends me this e- mail. That I should've brought in. Well. And in the e-mail, no-so I am analyzing the data. It's like nothing makes sense. It's like what is this? This is not what the paper said. Because she sent me the raw data, and I was looking at the paper. And nothing makes sense. I'm like, "What is this weird thing?" [0:06:22.7]
So I went to my boss. He's like, "What is this? This is weird." So he's like, "E-mail her." So I e-mail her. And then she replies and answers some questions, which are-I don't know. I was one of the questions-one of her answers. I asked her, why in the paper are only 40 compounds, if the files have 45 compounds. Where are the other 5 compounds. She's like, "Yeah, I just left them out so the story makes some sense." Huh?
COUNSELOR: How can you just leave out...
PATIENT: I was like, this is not ethical. So I asked-I have-I went to talk to my boss and we were just going to the point of I was going to tell him, what did he think about this. Because so in two parts of the e-mail. One she says she left the compounds out so the story makes more sense. And the other part is that-is that, what am I saying? Oh the data-she didn't analyze that data because I don't know. She didn't like it because the background was too high, so she picked one. I'm like, this is not a scientific reasoning.
This is weird. This is definitely not an ethical decision. This is something-and it's been bothering me since yesterday. I went to bed and was thinking about it. I woke up this morning, having this feeling. Like this cannot be true. This girl cannot just, you know like-a) she's doing unethical decisions. You cannot omit data. You cannot manipulate your data so you get a paper. If you have bad data, you have to explain your bad data. You just don't-omission is as bad as lying.
COUNSELOR: Sure! [0:08:21.5]
PATIENT: I don't know if how it is, in this area. COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: But in our area.
COUNSELOR: Definitely.
PATIENT: And she just puts it in the e-mail. Like nothing happened. So a) she's not a good scientist, b) she's stupid because she doesn't understand that it's not-you know, like she I mean not stupid but like non-educated. No one told her this. So this has been bothering me. I woke up this morning feeling weird. It's like, "Oh right. That's what happened yesterday."
This weird e-mail, where someone tells me that-research I'm doing. Because I'm involved in this research. It's
about:srcdoc Page 87 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
not that just like-it's their research and I-I'm involved in this. I have to do stuff with their data. And if they don't-you know if the data is like-and the paper is not right. It's done. I'm screwed. Because then I'm going to publish and they're going to see a) the old paper doesn't say this.
COUNSELOR: So there's some responsibility on you that could be... [0:09:18.7]
PATIENT: Yeah. And I'm like, this is not right. So I went to talk to my boss. And we were just right-going, like going to the point and he had an appointment. I was like, "Aah." So I left. But I'm going to talk to him today. And I'm going to tell him that I'm not going to stay working with him. I mean, that I-that I don't want to work with, in a place where people cheat or omit stuff. And that he has to know that I'm not going to do work-I'm not going to write any paper, put my signature on any paper if there's things you-you know like mistakes. Not mistakes because you can have mistakes. Omissions. Or like you're lying about stuff. This I don't know.
COUNSELOR: And so do when you initially talked to him, does it seem as though he's in agreement with this one lady or...?
PATIENT: No he hasn't-she sent him the e-mail too, which I thought was like, "What is this lady sending?" You know, that says she omitted data. Like it wasn't a-it was like if it was normal.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: But he didn't read it because he saw the e-mail was for me. He got just like a copy. [0:10:31.5] COUNSELOR: Okay. So you're-so when you say that you're going to tell him that you can't work with-
PATIENT: No, with him, if he's going to make me -. If I'm not going to be like a grad student in his lab, if he pretends that I'm going to do this thing. Of course I'm going to do it in a nicer way. That I'm really concerned about this and I don't agree with it.
COUNSELOR: Do you think that he would tell you to continue to do whatever you can do with this piece of work?
PATIENT: I'm just going to do it with the real data. I'm not going to use fake data. COUNSELOR: Do you think he would encourage you to use fake data?
PATIENT: No. I don't think so. I just want to make clear that I'm not going to work with crazy data that doesn't-that is not right. And that if I stay there as a student, I'm going to say-I'm just going to say. And when I'm-ah. Shoot. If I stay here. I have to say, "If I stay here." As a student I'm not going to-I'm not going to be, allow this to happen. I'm not going I'm not like that.
I'm not going to cheat just to have a paper and a great journal. I'd rather have a real paper with true data and a small journal than have it in science with fake data. He cannot pretend. I don't know. I'm so concerned. What if I like, do the advisors really expect you to lie so you can get good papers? I'm-I don't know. [0:12:10.0]
COUNSELOR: That's a big dilemma for some. Yeah, they want to publish in the big journals or they're being supervised and advised by...
about:srcdoc Page 88 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
PATIENT: Because this student she didn't even care about writing something like-it happens in her lab. It's common because she says "Oh, we just omitted the data." Like a normal thing?
COUNSELOR: Right. It's just-happens. (ph)
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: It's because it happens.
COUNSELOR: Every day and it really-it's not really a big deal. PATIENT: Oh, I didn't like that.
COUNSELOR: That didn't sit well with you at all?
PATIENT: But then it's like, yeah. The schools here are so famous, so good, but then these things happen. I'm like, "Oh, well."
COUNSELOR: It will be interesting to see how your supervisor, how PATIENT: I'm very interested.
COUNSELOR: Stephan would respond to this.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Well that's good that you're able-now what does it feel like to be able to put your foot down and say, "I'm not working with this bogus data. And I'm not putting my name on anything that isn't ethical." How does that feel to be able to make those type of statements, those type of things?
PATIENT: It's scary, but I mean this is something good, not like me telling him, "Don't yell at me." Something like... I know it's so but yeah. I know it's so wrong. So wrong for everyone, it's not just from someone's point of view. It's so wrong that I really think that I have to make this clear. I'm not omitting any data. I don't care if the data sucks. I'll just do it again. I'll just try some-but I'm not going to-I'm not going to-if I stay here as a grad student or even with this work, I'm not going to fake any data. [0:14:03.4]
COUNSELOR: So it sounds like it's more acceptable to be assertive with him in this area, because this is blatantly wrong, I mean.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: It's unethical. But then it's different talking with him about the personal issues that you have.
PATIENT: Yeah. Because I know, I think his personal skills are not that great. He doesn't understand-he should and I will tell him, like what we said last time. I have to tell him. He cannot go and yell at me. I really have to tell him that. But the problem is like, I know he's quite crazy, so, I don't know. Yeah. I should tell him that he shouldn't yell at us. Like the same way I'm going to tell him this today.
COUNSELOR: And is that just as scary, as telling him about this unethical issue that you're seeing? (ph)
about:srcdoc Page 89 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
PATIENT: Oh this is not as scary as telling him that he cannot yell at us. COUNSELOR: Oh.
PATIENT: You know what I was thinking too? Like no one ever told him that was not right. And he's been there for six years. And then I come here. And I decide that's not right for me. So that's why it's kind of scary. I think that he's going to say that I'm being-you know, that it's from my point of view, that he yells.
COUNSELOR: That it's only your problems. Your problems, not really... [0:15:39.4]
PATIENT: Yeah. That's why I would-that's what I think is so scary because I know he always blames other people.
COUNSELOR: And there's a good chance that that might happen.
PATIENT: Yeah, I'm going to have sure that I have another....
COUNSELOR: Another reason?
PATIENT: No no no no no. that I have-that I know exactly what to tell him and that I, like-like my future is not at risk.
COUNSELOR: Sure.
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: If I want to apply to the Ohio State, I want them to tell me "Yes." COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: Like they promised. And after that I can just....
COUNSELOR: You have to take care of you, too, right? So it's either you talk with him and you let him know how you feel. And hopefully the situation can be corrected. Or you find some way to put up with it until you get accepted.
PATIENT: No. Yeah, until I get accepted. After that? I know myself. It's going to-I've never put up with so much.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, so how do you-if you decide that it's too great of a risk to talk with him now before you get that acceptance. How do you put up with it until then. So that you're not stressing out. So that you're not feeling really bad about yourself. So you're not on the verge of quitting and those sort of things. How can you continue to work with him and his issues without those things happening. Is it possible? [0:17:16.5]
PATIENT: Well, a) We're all going on vacation, which mean we all come in January completely renewed attitude. He does it, I do it. Everyone in the lab comes [back in spirit]. (ph) b) I'm going to have to work, twice as hard. You know, spur him to for him not to yell at me stupid things. I'm going to have to be patient. I need the acceptance. I cannot go and tell him that he has to stop yelling at us. I cannot risk my future. Once I have an acceptance letter from any school? I don't care. From any of the schools I applied, I'll go and talk to
about:srcdoc Page 90 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
him.
COUNSELOR: Okay. [0:18:12.5]
PATIENT: But before that, it's too risky.
COUNSELOR: So when you think about your life, when has there been a time where you've taken a risk like that and it backfired on you.
PATIENT: What is it-what is it, backfired.
COUNSELOR: Oh, backfired means like how're you saying if you go and talk to him, you may not be able to get accepted to these schools. Or he may not want to work with you, and those sorts of things. So like you do something but then it doesn't work out. So, when in your life have you taken a risk on something and it didn't work out for you. In fact it made it worse or made it worse for you? You understand what I'm asking?
PATIENT: Yeah, with him, exactly with him. COUNSELOR: Oh, okay. What happened.
PATIENT: When was this-like August, last year, in 2005. He sends me an e-mail telling me that I should apply to schools. And I was like, "Yeah, I'm applying." But not for this year. For last year. And I went to his office and I told him, "Yeah, I want to apply to schools. But I want to apply for 2006." And he-and I told him, "I'm preparing my exams and stuff like that." And he's like, "Well, you're not good enough. And you will never make it into any school. You're not as good as Asian students or-" so he started pulling all the application packages he was reviewing, or he had reviewed a year before.
He's like, "Look, your GPA not half as good as this one. Look your GRE is not half as good as this one. Your classes are not as good as these people. So you're no one. No one is going to accept you. What do you think you're doing?" He was so mean that they-it's like-I was like, "Okay. You could have told me 'No. You have to do it first.' (ph)" But he was humiliating me. Really bad. I have never felt like that. I was like-trying to run away from his office because I was going to start crying in front of him. I was like, "This is too much." Because I told him I wanted to apply for 2006 and he made a huge deal about it.
COUNSELOR: And so, because you didn't want to apply when he wanted you to apply. [0:20:48.6] PATIENT: He wanted me to apply for 2007.
COUNSELOR: Okay-oh, so you were applying earlier than what he-okay.
PATIENT: He was yelling like a monster. I remember that day, it is like the worst day of my life, here. Because he told me, you're not good. And I'm the same person I was a year ago. I don't think a year and a half ago-I don't think. I mean, my GRE scores they went up by 20 points. Nothing else. TOEFL, the same thing. Everything was the same thing. It's just that-he just didn't want me-didn't want. I don't know.
COUNSELOR: And so you didn't apply. [0:21:28.3] PATIENT: No.
about:srcdoc Page 91 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
COUNSELOR: You waited until...
PATIENT: I apply-I waited for another year. Like I was-I was looking for a different job. I talked to some professor-Portuguese professors that work in different universities here. And they're like, "Marta, you have to put up with it and work for him another year. And get his recommendation letter. That's all-I mean, you really need it." Because different from a lot of people that come from China and Korea, they're professors were classmates with professors in different universities here. They have lots of contacts.
But in my case, it's not like that. No one-my pro-only one of my professors came to the US. And she went to Virginia Tech. I'm not applying there. I don't have any contacts, with anyone in the United States. If they-my chances of getting into any schools were zero. And then I took the GRE and I didn't do well. So I was like, "Eh, this is it."
But that day was really bad. Then another day, I went to his office to show him something I did. And then- you know like to tell him this item thing, this is working. And he found two mistakes and he told me that I was sabotaging his work.
COUNSELOR: Right, I remember you telling me that. [0:22:53.3]
PATIENT: So it's like, he's crazy. I mean, you never know what to expect with him.
COUNSELOR: So it's really scary to face him, to be able to share anything with him, because you really don't know how he's going to react and-
PATIENT: And then one day he told me that I was handicapped. And I was like... COUNSELOR: So to avoid the humiliation and...
PATIENT: Yeah, because I cannot yell at him and tell him to shut up. I can't. COUNSELOR: Sure. (chuckles) No, you can't do that.
PATIENT: It's not like with your parents. That you can just turn around, and it's like, "Don't bother me! I'm going to my room!" Or you yell or whatever. With him, you just have to sit there in his office and wait for him to be tired of talking. And he's from Portugal. He's like me, he loves to talk. So he talks a lot. And humiliates people a lot. So yeah, that's why I'm scared. Because it already happened three times I think. I went to talk to him and then I ended up being like... or in lab meetings that he tells us that we're schizophrenic.
COUNSELOR: Well, but you have to do what you feel comfortable, with doing. [0:24:11.2]
PATIENT: Yeah, and once I got any acceptance letter. Ac-accept-how do you say, acceptance letter?
COUNSELOR: Uh-hm, that's right. That's it.
PATIENT: Letter, I will talk I will go and talk to him, definitely.
COUNSELOR: Okay so let's get back to if you decide to do that, how do you deal with it. Like say you come back in January, you're refreshed, he's refreshed. But you still a week later into the new year, you know, he's
about:srcdoc Page 92 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
right back at it. With screaming at you or deriding on you or making these statements that make you feel, like you're less than or inadequate. How do you deal with that.
PATIENT: I don't know.
COUNSELOR: What do you do with that. Have you ever dealt with someone like this before where you had to-where you couldn't really say anything about it, or do something in a situation. How have you coped with it in the past that worked for you.
PATIENT: Go to therapy. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: Okay, so just being able to talk about it.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Does that help you, be able to say, "Hey, this is what happened with my boss today." And get some of that out.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: That helps. Okay.
PATIENT: Yeah, I can go to therapy, be patient, think-try to reason why the person is like that. Sometimes he has problems outside the lab. And he just goes in and yells at us. And we're not even guilty.
COUNSELOR: Yeah so sometimes (inaudible at 0:25:53.1).
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: Sometimes it's, you know, think that he's crazy. He has his own problems. He just like...
COUNSELOR: Takes it out on you all. (ph)
PATIENT: On us, yes.
COUNSELOR: It's kind of like displacing that. Where somebody outside makes you upset. You can't do anything to them, so then you go and you take it out on, you know...
PATIENT: Yeah, that's what he does.
COUNSELOR: Somebody else. So for you to be able to see that, "It's not me. This is something that he's going through. And I'm just the, you know, guinea pig or whatever. Maybe it's who is on the other end of it. It's not about me personally." And maybe you keep repeating that in your head. "It's not that I'm stupid. It's not that I'm handicapped. It's not that I'm sabotaging his research. This is his own stuff. As long as I keep that in my mind, this isn't' really about me."
PATIENT: And like, yeah. And like what we said that last time. Every time he said-yells or something. I'm just going to send back and e-mail saying, "You shouldn't yell at me." Or "You shouldn't tell me this or that." You know like, "I'm really sensitive. Don't treat me like that." I told you that I sent you an e-mail once when
about:srcdoc Page 93 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety
11/8/25, 6:54 PM
he told me I was sabotaging. I told him, "I really appreciate being here." COUNSELOR: And I can't remember-how did he respond to that. PATIENT: Oh, he said, "I'm sorry."
COUNSELOR: Oh.
PATIENT: He sent an e-mail saying like that, back saying, "I'm sorry."
COUNSELOR: So maybe as they come, you can shoot out those e-mails and he'll continue to... PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Apologize or maybe.
PATIENT: Yeah. And I think, sometimes it's easier with an e-mail. Instead of going to his office and- COUNSELOR: Because you're face-to-face.
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: Facing him.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: Yeah, so sometimes I[0:27:41.6]
COUNSELOR: This is what I was thinking of last week. Maybe if you didn't even talk with him face-to-face, maybe a letter. And even if, this is something that we talked about last week too. Even if you don't give him the letter. But if you-
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: Just write it.
COUNSELOR: Just write it. Whatever you would. If you could, say this is acceptance day letters and that sort of thing, and you know, know I'm going to talk to him. This is what I would say if I had nothing to lose. Right? Just write that out. You don't have to give it to him or mail it to him. But just for you to be able to get that off your chest and to kind of, put that out there.
PATIENT: I've done that before. With my ex-boyfriend. I think, I tried to break up with him three times. And the three letters, I sent them to his house. And then I have to go there and pick them up. It's like, "Run over me!"
(laughter)
PATIENT: Yeah. This was in Portugal. And it happened-two times, the three times I sent it in the mail. And I had to go there and pick it up. The other time I just kept it in my notebook or something. Yeah, you know, it
about:srcdoc Page 94 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
works. It worked before, so.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, so this isn't something new that you probably have dealt with. So use what has worked for you in the past. Because you have the answers, Marta.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: So it's just about getting in touch with what has worked for you before. And it's helped you feel better, feel good or not. You don't take things to heart or affects (inaudible at 0:29:25.1).
PATIENT: So, I'll just do that.
COUNSELOR: What time is it? 1:36 (ph), okay. So I just want to ask you. Do you have any thoughts, or what are your feelings, about my leaving or not being able to see you, after next week.
PATIENT: What is what?
COUNSELOR: What comes up for you.
PATIENT: I just. (laughs) I just think that I have to go back, again. (cries) Say... all that . You know, go back and say all my life again. The sad stories, but. I have done it a couple of times before, so. But does she get to hear what we record or not?
COUNSELOR: Yep.
PATIENT: So I don't have to go back and tell her everything again?
(crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: Well I'm -she may have questions about it. About what I write in my report or, you know.
PATIENT: But it's not that we're starting, starting from zero.
COUNSELOR: I don't believe so. She'll have the report. And if she wants to listen to the tapes, she can do that.
PATIENT: Oh, okay. [0:30:54.7]
COUNSELOR: We haven't talked about the specific details of, if she can really pick up where we left off. She may have questions or she might ask you about the past and things. But I can see how that could be-well let me ask you. What is it about going back over the sad stories and things and looking-as that being a possibility. What comes up for you.
PATIENT: No, I don't know. I just think it's, eh. I don't know. Well I just think that... it's not fun to have to go back again.
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: And say everything again.
about:srcdoc Page 95 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
COUNSELOR: You've shared a lot with me.
PATIENT: Yeah. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: Since we've been talking, right, and so I can see how that would (inaudible at 0:32:10.8). PATIENT: Oh well.
COUNSELOR: And the one thing I was thinking about Marta, is I have no (inaudible at 0:32:19.4 .) I have a whole lot about you. A lot of what you've shared. One thing that I've gathered is that it seems like you have experienced a lot of loss, in your young life. Right? And, some clients may experience transfers, a transfer from one therapist to another as a loss as well. And so as we're talking about, even like with you boss saying things that really want to say but may not know how. I want to be able to give you the opportunity while I'm here, in your face. And for this week, next week if there's' anything you would like to say to me.
I want to open that space because it seems like with the different losses in your life, you may not have always gotten that opportunity. We talked about your previous therapist and how you didn't go to the funeral. You didn't know that she was dying and these sorts of things And there are things that maybe you would've wanted to say to her that you didn't get a chance to.
People come and go, out of our life all the time, whether it's because of tragedy or because of good tings or just circumstance or we move on. You know, whatever the case. So I want to be able to give you the opportunity to say whatever, you may want to say, to me. Positive, negative. You know. It doesn't matter.
PATIENT: I don't have anything negative to say. (cries) COUNSELOR: Even if you did, that's okay. You know. PATIENT: No, I don't have anything.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: It's just like.
COUNSELOR: How does it feel with me asking you that. Or opening that door. PATIENT: I don't know. Normal? I don't know. [0:34:56.4]
COUNSELOR: Okay. What are you thinking?
PATIENT: No, I don't know. It's just like... no. It's what you say. So many come and go. I don't know. And everyone I know in Whitehall is-is leaving. Or will leave next summer. So I really, I mean. It's like all the when I came here, all the friends I had. They're all leaving or they already left. Two of them already left and now I have three more that-four more that are leaving in the summer. So I don't know if it's going to keep being like this all, you know like, all the time that I'm going to be here? Because it's like the same thing.
It's annoying again, to have and make friends. You don't really put a lot of effort into making new friends and then they leave. And you have to put again, all this big effort, to make new friends. So it's like just-it's quite weird. People don't move that much. In Portugal, people don't-I see here, and people is like, "Oh yeah, I got
about:srcdoc Page 96 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
an offer like in Texas." You know a job offer. And they all leave and move around the country.
So this is not normal in Portugal. Yeah, people go outside and study. But you have-everyone stays in the same city, in the same house. You go to college in the same city. Everything is the same, so I think that's been hard for me.
COUNSELOR: Sure. [0:37:24.3]
PATIENT: You know, like all this... All this moving. Yeah, people come and go every day. And you don't even really know what, where you're going. Yeah. I don't know. I think it's hard. And I was talking to my dad on the phone. And he's like-we were talking about this. How people here move and then you're lonely-no, then you're alone and you feel lonely. And I was telling him this, and he's like, "Yes! The thing is that young people in Portugal are very independent-dependent, like they depend on their parents. They always have the same friends."
And it's true. I have my friends since I was ten years old, or nine years old. So then we went to high school and we went to different colleges or whatever. But we kept living in the same city, doing the same things. Seeing each other, once or twice a week. So it's like, I was talking to him about that. About this. We are very- we depend on a lot of people. And here and then I come here, it's like... Yeah. Everyone goes and... but oh well. (cries) [0:39:03.7]
COUNSELOR: That has to be tough. Talk about culture shock, huh?
PATIENT: (cries) And I was thinking that, when I was sick. The thing-during the weekend. I was thinking why I was having this cultural shock, right now. And I've been here for almost two years, and I've never had it. Then I realized, well, I got here and I made all these friends. And they were all here. And six months ago, they all started leaving. And I broke up with Jose, which was like... When you're dating someone from your own country, it's... you still feel that you're at home. And you have so many thing sin common that you don't have to explain. You don't have the language barrier.
COUNSELOR: Sure. [0:40:11.6]
PATIENT: But you kind of don't understand that. And my problem is that I started dating him, after 7 days of being in Whitehall. So I was never by myself. I never-I don't think I ever. I think everybody goes through the cultural shock. But they do it at t the beginning. I just like-this is delayed one.
Because I I had all these Portuguese friends. I also had all my friends from school here. I had him. So, I think that it's-I'm a little lonely now, so. And it's hard to learn to be by yourself. All the time. For us, because we're used to never being by ourselves. But oh well, I think.
Yeah, it's likeit's really funny because I realized everybody is like, "Oh! I would never be able to live with my parents." I was like, "I'm still with them." (laughs) "I want to live with them." And I we have a lot of problems, but I just it's-I need to learn how to be okay. If I'm alone. But oh well.
I'll just learn. I just think-yeah, what I told you. I never went through this before because I was attached to a lot of stuff. So. So in the same way I think about making new friends, "Oh. It sucks. I don't want to." Is the same thing about when you tell me, "You have a new therapist." I'm like, "Uh, I don't want. I don't want to tell someone again all my life."
about:srcdoc Page 97 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
COUNSELOR: Yeah, because you put a lot of energy and effort into that. You shared a lot. A lot of your story-
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: Yeah. It sucks.
COUNSELOR: A lot of yourself. [0:42:38.0] PATIENT: Yeah. But oh well.
COUNSELOR: That's what is so, I think, amazing about you, Marta. Is that despite, you know, the feeling that comes up when you have to separate from people or separate from you, for you to still be so giving of yourself and your story. And the amount of energy and effort that you put into that, I think, is truly, truly awesome. And it helps build relationships and these sorts of things.
So, I'm looking forward, I think, like I said, the therapist that I have lined up for you. I think it'll be a great fit. Because she's very open. And hopefully you will find it less challenging to, be able to open up with her and talk with her about. Because you have a great story. You do. And although there's some sadness in that. You also told me about some really fun times. And some great things.
PATIENT: Yeah, I mean. I cannot complain. I had a really good life. I mean, my life is right now. It's hard but-wait. I compare myself to other people and they're really in need. I'm like, "Oh my God. I'm so lucky. I'm just crying for stupid stuff."
COUNSELOR: Well it's not-I mean, you can't say it is stupid stuff. (crosstalk)
PATIENT: No but it's just
COUNSELOR: It's just your stuff. Marta, it's your life.
PATIENT: Yeah, it's my life. [0:44:28.7]
COUNSELOR: People have different variants of, things that happen in their life. So if it makes you cry, it makes you tear-then it makes you cry, it makes you tear.
PATIENT: Yeah. No, but I mean. Yeah. But I don't think-you know, I cannot complain. It's been good. And it's good. I could be in Portugal without-complaining about my boss. That would be worse. Not, not even having the opportunity to go to grad school. That would be worse than being here and complaining about the crazy guy. So yeah. So it's bad, eh-not that bad. It could be worse. Always could be worse. Okay. I have to leave. It's almost 2:00. [0:45:37.5]
COUNSELOR: Okay. Well. Next week, same time. And before we get started-her name is Julia. PATIENT: Julia. Okay.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, so I'm going to bring Julia . And she'll probably be able to join us for the first part of
about:srcdoc Page 98 of 99

Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety 11/8/25, 6:54 PM
the session. If you have questions and you can even ask her. [It doesn't have to start.] (ph) I'll be able to answer them. And we can talk more about that. But yeah.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: I definitely enjoyed working with you. And... PATIENT: Yeah. Thank you very much.
COUNSELOR: Like I said, between now and next week. If anything comes up, questions you have or things you want to say. You can definitely bring those to the session, next week. Okay, so next week I guess, will probably be our last session.
PATIENT: Tuesday. I can come on the 12th.
COUNSELOR: Okay. So if you wanted to come on that Monday, we could have...
PATIENT: Before going home. My boss not going-my boss is leaving on the 12th. So.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Okay, so we'll meet Thursday. And then we'll have a final meet on the 12th. PATIENT: Yeah. [0:46:47.1]
COUNSELOR: Okay. Sounds good. Sounds good.
PATIENT: Can-Can I I always forget. I think I don't forget them, but I always forget about, your clinic. COUNSELOR: The clinic?
END TRANSCRIPT
about:srcdoc Page 99 of 99
