Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: October 12th, third consult meeting with Tim Collins, therapist Betty Johnson. Going back in, just gathering some more information regarding family history things that might (ph) occurred and to help me understand where you came from, problems (ph) all sorts of things.
PATIENT: Way back in the beginning. (Laughter)
COUNSELOR: Because I guess the, the, the one thing that came to me, we were talking ackewort (ph) was when you talked about the diabetes and how it's impacted your life. I'm wondering what life was like for you before the kidney disease, before the injury. How is life different?
PATIENT: My, prior to that (ph) I didn't have a real good relationship with my spouse. Now, I can't say that it was the worst relationship, but it wasn't the best it would have been. [0:01:02.6] But we were very active in the church. I was Sunday school teacher and Youth Director and Treasurer all at different times and she was the secretary for the church, so we got along and we were always doing something apart, together. The people that I worked with, I was in the Coast Guard and I was a mechanic on an aircraft, went in and did my job and we got along, we did the best that we could. We traveled together, wife, wife and the kids weren't going with me all the time and I wasn't in a, I didn't have any alcohol abuse during that time and stuff, and it was all after the divorce and my traveling for Ford and the people that I traveled with would stop and party and. [0:02:09.4]
COUNSELOR: And that's when the alcohol and drinks began (ph)? PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: How, how did that im-, impact you? Your home life?
PATIENT: Well, basically it hasn't because when we got married I stopped traveling, I started working for a different company and basically I stopped drinking. We get together once a year for remembrance of a. of a friend, but other than that, I don't.
COUNSELOR: Okay. What about then? When, when you were married and, and for, (ph) forgive me, I can't remember your ex-wife's name?
PATIENT: Janice.
COUNSELOR: Janice. Okay. And your current wife's name is?
PATIENT: Kathleen. [0:03:01.4]
COUNSELOR: Janice. Okay. So, while you, oh that's right, you said that (ph) when you were with Janice, you didn't have any issues with alcohol -
  about:srcdoc Page 1 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: it wasn't until after the divorce and then working with Ford, working with this driven you (ph) working and traveling with that it was an issue. Okay. What about the anger? Was, how did that look? [When your is, how your life with Kathleen?] (ph at 0:03:31.7]
PATIENT: I thought I had it pretty much under control and stuff. I didn't really have any problems with that. That didn't start, that started when I started working for Jeep, which was about 2001 and we got married in 2002, but I don't think the anger was an issue at that point either. I think it was 2003 when I got hurt. I started getting real frustrated, so. I went to see a chiropractor last night. I was walking around in Foodlion and my back went numb and I got a burning sensation and stuff. I said I'm going to do something, I can't tolerate this, so I went to see him last night and he did some adjustments and stuff and I feel better today. [0:04:35.0]
COUNSELOR: Okay, well good.
PATIENT: A couple days ago, it seems like her and I really don't know how to communicate. COUNSELOR: This is Kathleen?
PATIENT: Yeah. I don't have a real good remembrance of a lot of things.
COUNSELOR: And what do you mean?
PATIENT: Well, like the doctor that prescribed the medication for me, I can't recall her name, but I can remember a lot of other people's names and stuff. And I don't know why it is. She mentioned yesterday that she gave her Foodlion card to her son to buy gas. I was with her, but I don't recall it. I didn't physically see her give the card to him and, and so she started arguing with me. That was last night. [0:05:36.4] A couple days ago we got into a similar situation where she started yelling at me, I started yelling at her. She said some things and if I feel like I'm antagonized, if I got my back up against the wall I'm going to say something that I don't want to say and it seems like I say I'm sorry a lot and I keep thinking that brat's (ph) the little boy throw the nails in, his dad had him pull them out and, but once you say something you can't take away the hurt.
COUNSELOR: Right. And so if, if you're saying that in your current situation with Kathleen, were there glimpses of that in your previous marriage?
PATIENT: No. COUNSELOR: No? Okay.
PATIENT: Not, not until she said I, I want a divorce, I don't love you anymore. And then I just, I just turned right against her. [0:06:36.5]
COUNSELOR: Okay. Do you kind of remember what made you turn against her or what came up for you? PATIENT: It was just the, the hurt. I felt like I was betrayed.
COUNSELOR: Sure. Must have been (inaudible) (crosstalk) right now.
PATIENT: After being married for 20 years, and Kathleen was married for 25 years when she had the first, so
about:srcdoc Page 2 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
we're both similar situations.
COUNSELOR: Sure. How much of that do you all think you carry into your marriage to each other? Because I'm, I'm not sure, how, how did what caused Kathleen's marriage to end?
PATIENT: Her husband had a, I don't know what they'd call that, but basically he lost his peripheral vision, he lost his job, and he says I'm not a good husband for you. I can't stay married to you, you need to get out and take care of yourself. And so she did a similar betrayal. She didn't want to and they stayed together for seven years and finally she separated. [0:07:57.5]
COUNSELOR: Okay. And how did you all meet, you and Kathleen? PATIENT: We met on a television station.
COUNSELOR: Oh, how did that work out?
PATIENT: That worked out pretty well. [It was I junk] (ph) country and I called in and left a message and I was gone on a trip. I was in Iowa at the time when she had responded and so we set up a simple date at a restaurant in Tyson's and we met, it was close to the airport and I got back in and we talked for about four hours that night and we, oy, '96 to '98 it was just basically dating and stuff. In the fall of '00 I bought a house from a gentleman I worked with and we moved in together. And in 2002 we got married. [0:09:13.2]
COUNSELOR: Okay. So you met her in what year again? PATIENT: '98.
COUNSELOR: 1998, in a television station and you guys then went out and then in 2000 you bought a house and moved in together.
PATIENT: We moved together, yes.
COUNSELOR: And in 2002 you end up marrying. Okay. Yeah, so you both have been, so the radio station was kind of like a personals? Like, like they have personal ads and things like that, does it seem like that?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay. And you got divorced in what year?
PATIENT: '94.
COUNSELOR: Okay. So, what was life like for you between '94 and '98 before you met Kathleen and the time when you got divorced? [0:10:11.3]
PATIENT: Oh, one big party. COUNSELOR: Okay, okay.
PATIENT: From, I had a buddy in the service that we'd get together with. He had a motorcycle and in 1991 he bought another motorcycle and so we worked together on that in kind of a project. I spent a lot of time with
about:srcdoc Page 3 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
him, working on the motorcycle and stuff. We'd go out and get on the metro beach and just go out riding, set in the roads and stuff. Sometimes we'd go to the bar on Friday night and close the bars, sleep on the bike and cruise back the next day. In '94 when I got divorced, it seemed like I was doing a lot more then of that. [0:11:12.4] And I just seemed to go out and think we're having fun, having a good time and stuff. There was a band, guys I worked with, followed them around. Got involved with a few people and we just traveled together, partied, and had fun.
COUNSELOR: Were you dating during that time?
PATIENT: No. No. It wasn't until 199-, end of '93, there was a gal at the parachute shop on the base that always did the alterations on my uniforms and stuff. She had invited me to a birthday party, they called it a Leo party and there was a bar in Sheffield she invited me out, so we went out together and wholert (ph at 0:12:15.6). I don't know if you'd call it, I guess casual dating a few times. We went to the VFW club a couple times, went to the New Year's party, went to a Christmas party, went to a wedding together. And she got married in 1998.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Were you guys still casually dating before she got married or PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: how long did you okay.
PATIENT: No, no, that, we went to a Dating Circle together a couple times and COUNSELOR: Dating Circle? What is that?
PATIENT: That is a, kind of a social gathering personal place where, it's people that have kids but they don't have a spouse or they want to get together try to meet with people. [0:13:14.9] We did some line dancing, we did some other things, but the one time that I didn't go she met this guy and, and he was really intent. They started dating, af-, it was a casual friendship after that. I'd go over to the house to see her son. I'd take little things over to him, he had a Big Brother that, that started and so I was kind of trying to back myself off that.
COUNSELOR: Okay. So how, how did you experience that Tim when you found out the day that you didn't go, she met this other guy, you had been involved and in now her life, with her children's life.
PATIENT: I had never looked at that as being a serious relationship. That was more just, just a friendship. COUNSELOR: Okay. But you made up your mind that you had to back off?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: From her and her children's lives? [0:14:15.7]
PATIENT: Yeah, she was, she was actually dating another gentleman that I worked with at the base and she was having some different problems trying to understand her relationship and stuff. And so we talked quite a bit. It was, it was purely just a friendship relationship. There, there was real no intimacy.
COUNSELOR: Okay. What does intimacy look like to you?
about:srcdoc Page 4 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
PATIENT: [silence]
COUNSELOR: When, when you get in, you, you take a hand in (ph) when, when you say intimacy, what comes to mind? What is your understanding?
PATIENT: Right now, nothing.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Ideally. What I mean is just like what, what I may mean by that can you say anything? [0:15:16.5]
PATIENT: Well, very, just a simple kiss on the lips, that's intimacy. It can be a start, very personal sexual encounter. That's a very personal moment. And I just, I just don't, ever since I've been hurting. It's, it's just not the same.
COUNSELOR: Okay, okay, and so before getting hurt, you were able to experience more intimacy than your, you're experiencing now?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay. What's the difference when you look at before you were hurt and, and
PATIENT: Well, there's a lot of difference.
COUNSELOR: Now, what, what year did you get hurt, and, and, and I know I have that information, just I have it.
PATIENT: 2004. [0:16:16.8]
COUNSELOR: 2003, okay. So, 2003 when you get hurt, you, you (crosstalk)
PATIENT: 2003 I got the kidney disease. I, I hurt my back.
COUNSELOR: So what did intimacy look like for you before 2003, let's say in comparison to now (ph).
PATIENT: Before 2003 we had a very, Kathleen and I had a very close relationship. We had our regular sexual times and stuff and, yeah, we were, we spent time kissing and hugging and talking and doing a lot of that, but afterwards, not, it seemed like just, I was like somebody turned around. [0:17:13.6] I talked with a doctor about it and he checked my testosterone level, it's, it's extremely low, but I also had kidney stones. I've got a, an enlarged prostate they called it, they call it BPH, and they give me medication for that but I, I just don't have that same, that same sense anymore.
COUNSELOR: What about Kathleen? Does she try, I mean I know she imaged (ph) on her disabilities and those sorts of things. Does she try and it's not a turn on to you or, or both of you had the same?
PATIENT: Well, right now it's, it's pretty much similar to her because she's in so much pain all the time. [0:18:15.7] We're both, we've both been hurt, we're both disabled. She was mugged and so she's got post- traumatic stress disorder and I kind of wonder if mine's similar situation, PTSD, and we both have the desire to, but it's just not the same.
about:srcdoc Page 5 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
COUNSELOR: How can you tell that you have the desire to? That you both have a desire to? And, and the desire to want to (ph) (inaudible)
PATIENT: Well, she, she tries to get close to me and tries to get me excited and try to get me to participate and stuff and, I can for a little bit but then it's just, it gets to the point I'm thinking about the pain and I just, I just can't finish what we started. [0:19:22.0]
COUNSELOR: Okay. How much of that do you think is consit-, I mean when we talked earlier about trying to figure out what's going on, was rocky (ph) (inaudible) when you think about the depression, you think about the anger, you think about not feeling yourself like last week you were saying not feeling as though you had a purpose and you can't do the things you used to do, your responsibility. In all those things, how much of not being able to have sex with your wife and achieve that, attributes to that?
PATIENT: Oh man. I know it attributes to it. Both of our pains attribute to it. I'd probably put that in a category of maybe 35-45-50 percent. But when we both start picking at each other, that's a big problem in our (ph) relationship. [0:20:34.4]
COUNSELOR: Definitely. And does that interfere with intimacy? Like outside of the pain and physical issues, do you think that the picking with each other, the arguing can chip away at the desire to be intimate with one another or ?
PATIENT: Oh. Absolutely.
COUNSELOR: and fear of that? (ph)
PATIENT: Absolutely.
COUNSELOR: Okay. So, ideally, is that something that during this process you would want to work on or try and figure out how to get that intimacy back?
PATIENT: Yeah, I'd like to. It seems like I, I want to say it's kind of a mild rollercoaster ride. COUNSELOR: Okay, tell me more about that. [0:21:24.8]
PATIENT: There's, there's some highs and some lows, I guess it goes to maybe falls in the category of manic depressants? Like they have their extreme highs or extreme lows. I don't know.
COUNSELOR: When, when is your, when are your highs and when are your lows? Have you noticed a pattern?
PATIENT: I don't really, I didn't really notice any particular pattern.
COUNSELOR: So in a given month, do you experience both highs and lows? I mean, when you look back and (inaudible).
PATIENT: Now the month of August we had gotten back from our trip to Idaho. [0:22:17.7] We went out West, we went to, then down to Alabama and she has some property down there, mineral rights and we investigated some of her heritage down there from her relatives and the trip was kind of a rollercoaster ride in itself. It was some good times and some, some bad times I guess put them [in there] (ph), but overall we had
about:srcdoc Page 6 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
a pretty good time. Driving down, driving back, that really didn't seem to be a problem. In California, we were, we went out to see Bob Barker and the Let's Make a Deal show and we got to a point where we just couldn't tolerate with where we were going, so we turned around and come back and she got caught up on the Hollywood Boulevard traffic and, and six lanes of traffic all bumper-to-bumper for, for about three hours and so we're, our frustration started. Now it's hard to deal with [0:23:33.2]
COUNSELOR: At each other, it went, it went from being on a six-lane highway traffic on either side and PATIENT: Yeah, with each other -
COUNSELOR: Directed to each other?
PATIENT: Now, I'm, I started to say things like, "Man, this is crazy" and seeing motorcycles going up and down, weaving in and out of that traffic, I guess it's legal to do that out there, and we both started get, getting upset with where we were at.
COUNSELOR: So, at what point does it go from being, well that's something I think as I'm hearing you talk about how you and Kathleen relate to each other, it's like it's, these outside things you guys are frustrated with and then, or things about yourself that you're frustrated with. At what point, or how does it turn toward each other? [0:24:21.9]
PATIENT: I honestly, it, it's just, I can describe some days as being good days and some days as being bad days and I think it has a lot to do with the pain. She's in pretty much constant pain, she has Rheumatoid arthritis and my pain, now depending on when I wake up, I'm not always, I'm not always the same.
COUNSELOR: In what sense? And in what sense are you not always the same? PATIENT: I, I just don't have the same pain.
COUNSELOR: So on some days it's tolerable, other days [0:25:14.6]
PATIENT: Other days it's not. I take the same medications day after day, I don't change anything. But some days I feel good, I feel energetic, I feel like doing things and other days I just want to be left alone. I get tired, I go to bed and she'll say, "Is that what you're going to do, is you're going to sleep all day?" and get in arguments that always comes up and that's what we throw at each other. She spends a lot of time sleeping and one time I said, "Well you're good at that, you might as well go do it" and, and so we kind of attack each other from time to time.
COUNSELOR: So, and, and that's something that's obviously uncomfortable to you. PATIENT: Absolutely.
COUNSELOR: And it sounds like you want to maybe work on ways where that will decrease because ideally if you could look at your marriage, which you guys have been married for three years now. What, where, where do you see your marriage headed? [0:26:22.7]
PATIENT: Well
COUNSELOR: Let me ask you this, where would you like to see your marriage headed? Ideally.
about:srcdoc Page 7 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
PATIENT: I would like for the two of us to be happy and to move to a climate where we can be more comfortable. We've talked about going to college, learning some French, doing something to get to change now what we've been doing. Trying new things and try to, we like helping people, but physically we're not able to at this time, but there are some small things that we can do from time to time.
COUNSELOR: Like what? What (inaudible)
PATIENT: Oh, just putting some time in a soup kitchen or
COUNSELOR: You guys do that kind of stuff now? You volunteer?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: At some point you did that kind of stuff or is that what you want to work (inaudible) [0:27:23.8]
PATIENT: It's something that we'd like to work towards. I have taken food baskets and stuff to people and it's pretty exciting thing to see the, the smile on people's faces to know that you've actually helped someone. And we have done some things with the church now, we've taken Christmas gifts for some needy children, we've taken in coats and we used to send our clothes over to the Veteran's Center in Chicago.
COUNSELOR: So it sounds like you're very outgoing, an altruistic person. You're very altruistic, you like to help people
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: and contribute and
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Did you do those types of things when you were married before or in that time of your life?
PATIENT: Oh yeah.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible) [0:28:20.6]
PATIENT: Yeah, it was nothing to leave a bag of groceries at somebody's car. And like Christmas time I used to, I used to hand out Christmas cards anonymously and give gifts and stuff that people just didn't realize.
COUNSELOR: And you (inaudible). Well, let me ask you this Tim, what you do see as some of your strengths? Your positive coancture (ph), things you're good at, what makes you a good person, you know your strengths. Because you've talked to me a lot about your limitations things that interfere with your being productive or being happier in your relationships, right? What are some of your strengths, other than being altruistic and helpful?
PATIENT: I'm a very caring individual. [0:29:19.3] And I have some good communication skills. With our grandkids, I, I'm learning to be more patient and try to do things with them and to become more involved. You know to be a grandparent.
about:srcdoc Page 8 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
COUNSELOR: Well, how often do you, do you spend time with your grandchildren? PATIENT: Oh. Lately it's, it's been just the weekends, but
COUNSELOR: And these are Kathleen's, this is Gary's children? [0:30:15.9]
PATIENT: Yeah. Mike is ten; Geanie is five, four, but she goes to preschool now. And so we don't see her as often, but we used to go over and pick her up and take her to the library and going shopping, go garage saleing (sp?) and she used to enjoy doing things with Nana and Papa and, and she still does. If we go over to the house, she runs to the door to greet us and Mike comes right up to us. If we're at home and they come over, they, the kids are the first ones through the doors.
[Audio interrupted at 0:30:53.6]
COUNSELOR: And the one follow-up question I have to ask is one, I wanted to ask that I didn't ask last time it came up is when we talk about your biological children that you have with Janice. You mentioned before that you don't have a whole lot of contact with them and I'm wondering what did, what was parenting like when you were married for those 20 years?
PATIENT: Oh, we were, the, the kids and I were pretty close. I, I cooked a lot of the meals and stuff and played with the kids quite a bit, games and stuff and different activities and things and it wasn't, wasn't bad, but it, it seemed at the point in time where we got divorced it, the wife had just turned the kids against me. [0:32:03.0]
COUNSELOR: What were you and Janice? (ph)
PATIENT: Well, she was very critical and said that I was a bad person, did a lot (inaudible) around and stuff.
COUNSELOR: What, what kinds of things was she saying about you? Like what would give her the impression that you're a bad person and I don't want you to be around the kids?
PATIENT: Oh. I don't know exactly why or anything, but at the time she started some comments about sexual abuse of her children and it went to trial. It went to trial with both daughters. The youngest daughter went to a children's home.
COUNSELOR: Okay, (inaudible) I don't know what happened to my pen. Let me get another pen (inaudible). Okay, so this went to trial when? [0:33:08.5]
PATIENT: I went to trial in 1995 was the first one and the second one went to trial in '96.
COUNSELOR: And this was [against at] (ph) your oldest daughters or the allegations were against the, you? Do you have, how many daughters do you have?
PATIENT: Two.
COUNSELOR: Two, okay. Okay. And these came up after the divorce or during the time you all were PATIENT: Well they come up during the, during the separation.
about:srcdoc Page 9 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
COUNSELOR: During the separation.
PATIENT: Yeah, I separated from her in '90. [0:34:07.2]
COUNSELOR: Okay. And how did the allegations come up? What was said, like how did you go to trial or how did (inaudible) (crosstalk)
PATIENT: I, I don't know how it came up because I was not living at the house. I was in, I lived on base for three months and then I moved, got my own apartment in about September of '95, '90, '91. We separated May of '90. [0:35:02.3 ] May was when I came home, I was down in Texas, I was at the missile range with the aircraft and stuff it was, it was job related and when I walked in the door, she says, "I don't love you." Plain and simple.
COUNSELOR: Was she saying those bad things about you during that time? PATIENT: No. No, that had never -
COUNSELOR: Come up? And they didn't come up until when, like when were you? PATIENT: I received a Summons in '92.
COUNSELOR: And had you had, what type of contact had you had with her or the kids prior to receiving the Summons?
PATIENT: None.
COUNSELOR: None? Any reason no contact with them? [0:36:07.7]
PATIENT: I went over to the house one time, got some of my stuff and she says that she don't want me around, she don't want me coming over. We started arguing, I got upset, I took a 2x4, we, we had a car together that was out in the driveway and it had already been wrecked and the engine had seized up in it and stuff, but she says that my car, you get your crap out of it and so I took everything, put it in the car and got out and she started saying something again and I got mad to the point where I picked up a 2x4, it was just laying there and I started beating the car with it. And then I got, the, the landlord come out, she says what's going on. I said I'm just upset. I'm upset with this whole situation. And she says, "Well the Sheriff is on the way" and I says, "Okay, I'm leaving" and I got in my car and left. [0:37:21.6]
COUNSELOR: And then
PATIENT: And from that point on, I didn't have any contact. COUNSELOR: And so in 1992 you received a Summons. PATIENT: In '92 I received a Summons.
COUNSELOR: And what were the allegations?
PATIENT: The allegations were actual first degree
about:srcdoc
Page 10 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
COUNSELOR: First degree?
PATIENT: criminal sexual conduct. Now Janice had a friend that became a paralegal and started working at the prosecutor's office in North County with Dave Shepard and it wasn't until after the divorce and stuff and she got to be very close with her. [0:38:29.8] I, I found out afterwards and I just wonder if, because the attorney that was appointed to my cases said that divorce cases can get real nasty as far as child custody and stuff, everybody want to keep the kids away from individuals they start allegations against one another. And I just didn't believe anything like that could happen.
COUNSELOR: Whatever became of the trial? What happened? PATIENT: Not guilty. Both counts.
COUNSELOR: And the trial lasted until, you said I think (inaudible)
PATIENT: I had one trial in, I want to say 1992, the Fall of '92. [0:39:26.0] September of '92 I went to State Police and, you know just all the legal stuff, turned myself in, got the pictures taken and was released on my own personal recognizance at the arraignment. I was never arrested. I was never held in custody and as long as I cooperated with them, they did their investigating and stuff and there really wasn't, there were some comments made by different people saying that we had a close relationship, but nothing.
COUNSELOR: That who had a close relationship?
PATIENT: They, they talked about how we hugged a lot and we were, were close. COUNSELOR: Who? You and your daughters; you and your wife? [0:40:26.9]
PATIENT: The whole family. You know I hugged the kids at night, and hugged them in the morning when we got up, they went to school and stuff. And on the weekends we went to church, you know you hug one another at times, you're very, I don't know, you're very caring about people. You're happy to see them. You get like a, like a bond with people you're close to most of the time. I have a bond with the people that I work with. I know that in any given situation if we were involved somewhere that we would've given our lives for one another. And we do that in our own personal relationship. We would do anything to protect our wives, protect our husbands, protect our children and. [0:41:19.7]
COUNSELOR: And that would make sense. You care for the ones that you love and you protect them and it comes through in your erections and [folks will perceive that] (ph). Unfortunately we have to stop now, but I do appreciate your sharing so much with me, talk about this (inaudible) information gathering peak (ph) so I'm just trying to understand what life was like for you before coming here to help us put together some pieces and understand what issues and (inaudible) so definitely have a lot of information here. Would you want to set up meet next week?
PATIENT: Can we try two weeks? See how it is?
COUNSELOR: What is the reason for wanting to do two weeks? [0:42:12.1]
PATIENT: Because I don't have any other appointments next week and I'm thinking about going on a trip. Is your phone number on the card? Let's go ahead and set up an appointment. I will call ahead of time if we're going to leave, I will cancel and make the appointment for the following week.
about:srcdoc Page 11 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
COUNSELOR: Yeah, that would make it a little more definitely. Be great. But I think you know Tim, you shared a lot, it seems like you really want some help by working on your anger and I want to see you happy. You talk about trying to, this ideal life that you want to see with Kathleen and, and how to deal with life, despite the diabetes, despite the back pains, and trying to help you with that. [0:43:14.6 ] So I think it's awesome that you want to work towards those goals and I definitely want to assist you. You do have great communication skills and that helps out a lot when you're working with someone. Because a lot of folks come in and they don't know what the problem is, they don't know how to identify it, don't know how to communicate it, but it seems like you are in touch with some things and that's a great place to start. And any outlet that you have, you talk about how things are so frustrated for you and things that your wife is frustrated sometimes talking about frustrations with one another doesn't always go the way that you like and so this is a place that, empty, that I'll definitely be a container for that for you to be able to just talk about that frustration because I'm sure it can be difficult to carry that around. [0:44:09.4]
PATIENT: It is. It is. I think both of us are kind of like a tissue box. You pull them out one at a time, and then as you get hurt, you pack them back in the box and all of a sudden you get to a point where you can't any more. The box just kind of explodes. Yesterday was a wonderful day, and today it, it's been off to a great start.
COUNSELOR: Well great.
PATIENT: I, I feel better. After seeing the chiropractor last night and then after coming in here, you know this, this is our third time
COUNSELOR: It sure is.
PATIENT: and I think it helps. Talk about it, get some of it out rather than keep it all inside. [0:45:08.8]
COUNSELOR: Definitely. And so I definitely want to see you for a fourth time. If you, I think it's important now that we have some things out in the open now we can build toward actually doing some work on those things. Okay, so, let me give you (inaudible).
PATIENT: Now is this mine?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, that's yours. Yep, you can have that. [Background noise] (inaudible) next Thursday I have, one, four. Next Thursday I don't have the 12 o'clock open because I have a transport that I have to do so I'm thinking about we could do it that morning Thursday? And if you like to keep it on Thursday or we can look at another day, do I really (ph) -
PATIENT: Well, let's look at Thursday morning. What do you have? [0:46:30.5] COUNSELOR: Okay. We can do it at, at 10 o'clock?
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: 10:30 (ph), 10 o'clock?
PATIENT: That's fine. I don't like to do it in the afternoons because I get tied up in that US 95 traffic. COUNSELOR: Sure. No one likes to be in that.
about:srcdoc
Page 12 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
PATIENT: Yeah and I drove from Champaign to Chester and Dundee. You know all the way across the country. Dundee and, all I, all I know is that the old Woolworth's building in the, in Chicago.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible) [Laughs] Let me ask you this, would Wednesday, would next Wednesday at my 12 o'clock?
PATIENT: 10 o'clock's fine. If 10 o'clock works for you, that, that's the time I'd like to have. [0:47:23.0] COUNSELOR: That's better?
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Okay, that sounds, the way it's going [to be then] (ph).
PATIENT: Yeah, I was assigned to a work project in a Jeep and they were being built at that facility. I spent three months driving back and forth on the South Grand Avenue and here all the over towards the West Industrial Parkway and go down to Dundee.
COUNSELOR: Same with me (ph) with all that, that whole area being END TRANSCRIPT
TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: 26, Tim Collins fourth consult. Betty Johnson.
PATIENT: Getting ready to go to work [a bunch] (ph) downstairs. I think they're remodeling upstairs in the living room and stuff. I'll have to ask (inaudible) [and when I get] (ph) more information I'll start doing a little bit of woodworking, but its.
COUNSELOR: Okay, well, that sounds, is, isn't that something that relaxes you or something that PATIENT: Yeah
COUNSELOR: you like to do (ph)?
PATIENT: it's something I enjoy doing so we'll give it (inaudible at 0:00:32.7)
COUNSELOR: Well good for you. That's good news, so what other kinds of things that, are you going, going to make?
PATIENT: She wants a bookcase [for the living room] (ph). I'm going to start with that, then a table for the, the one wall to display our pictures on, and I've got a couple of patterns for the Bear Roasting Marshmallows.
COUNSELOR: Oh really? (chuckles)
  about:srcdoc Page 13 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations
11/8/25, 6:48 PM
PATIENT: And for a moose lantern for the deck so [0:01:05.7] COUNSELOR: Oh wow.
PATIENT: [some big winter projects for her] (ph), so COUNSELOR: Oh wow.
PATIENT: I said if I make them, you paint them
COUNSELOR: (Laughs)
PATIENT: [in shorts]. (ph)
COUNSELOR: I guess that's a fair compromise, huh? Okay. So what is it that you all ended up doing last week? Did you do anything or?
PATIENT: We just hung curtains and then watched the baseball games and that's about it. It seems like we did a lot of running and stuff, to the, to the store and we do a lot of fooling around (ph) with the kids. Pick up our grandchildren. Pick up the granddaughter, take her to ballet, tap classes and stuff. The grandson, we take him to school and catechism during the week and, so we've been staying in and keeping busy. [0:02:14.2]
COUNSELOR: So how does that feel? Like how did last week feel?
PATIENT: It felt good. It just feels good doing things for others and not thinking about ourselves all the time.
COUNSELOR: So what do you think has changed between when you first got here to last week and feeling good and not [so much] (ph) (inaudible)?
PATIENT: It's just, I think communication is better, the better part of it. Because after I talked with you (ph), [go home] (ph) and we sit down and talk and bring things out in the open a little bit more (ph) and keeping things to ourselves (ph) (inaudible). We seem to understand each other a little bit better. [0:03:12.2]
COUNSELOR: Let me ask you this Tim, what if you remember of our last session, what was it like for you to, to talk of Kathleen the last time we were (inaudible)?
PATIENT: I just still feel a little bit apprehensive, that's all, it's. COUNSELOR: Want to tell me a little about that?
PATIENT: Hmm?
COUNSELOR: Want to tell me more about apprehensive (inaudible).
PATIENT: I just don't, don't open up too much I can't take (inaudible) [self, I'm not really there] (ph) (inaudible). And sometimes it's just hard to find the right things to say and you can't discuss (inaudible). [0:04:14.4] I tend to think about things, I mean I try to comprehend what I'm going to say before I say it.
COUNSELOR: Sure. Sure.
about:srcdoc Page 14 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
PATIENT: Sometimes when I get upset or angry, I don't do that (ph), I just say things right off the cuff and then hurting people (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: Sure. And so I'm wondering if in the last session you experienced apprehensiveness or, were you feeling that way after we talked then (ph)?
PATIENT: As we started talking about (inaudible) tend to relaxing (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: Because I wasn't quite sure, because I know we had talked in the past and in our last session you really talked about some things that I'm sure for anyone else would have, had been difficult to talk about and difficult to bring out to a person that you don't know, whatever the case is. [0:05:25.5] I'm wondering how you experienced that.
PATIENT: I, it didn't really bother me, but I'd be very open with all of my co-workers and stuff, and people that know me. I talked to (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: Okay, I wasn't quite sure so I didn't want, I was thinking a, thinking back on that session I did and all wanting you to be all as though I was, at, it seemed like what you had talked about could have been something that really impacted your life. It seemed like it could have been
PATIENT: Oh absolutely.
COUNSELOR: a very trying time and I was thinking about that like wow. Especially going through a divorce and then
PATIENT: Well, I had to COUNSELOR: and live in a new home.
PATIENT: [I'm still in love with Kathleen] (inaudible) about things to do because I don't have a real good relationship with either one of my daughters. [0:06:23.6] We've tried doing things for them and it's like we're being taken for granted, so when they get ready to open the door and say, hey we want to get together with you.
COUNSELOR: What is that like for you not to be able to have contact with your children or not, (inaudible at 0:06:42.3) children?
PATIENT: Well I really don't think about it that much because we're so active with the, with our grandkids and we have (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: So if active mean like with the grandkids are good enough to replace what you're missing with your children?
PATIENT: Is it good enough to replace? I don't think so. They, it just occupies the time, keep (inaudible). COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
PATIENT: If I start to say something that I get a little bit edgy (inaudible) I'll say you know I really can't dwell on it. That'll happen when the time comes. (inaudible). [0:07:24.2]
about:srcdoc Page 15 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
COUNSELOR: So, so does not thinking about it or being able to focus your attention on your grandchildren or something else, does that help you feel better about the situation or?
PATIENT: It really doesn't change it the way that I feel but it's (inaudible at 0:07:45.6). I wish we were closer. As long as they're having contact, they aren't (inaudible) I don't think they'll (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: I'm just thinking that going to trial and those sorts of things, what was that like for you during that time?
PATIENT: Very stressful. Very difficult. Mentally, emotionally COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: physically. [0:08:23.9] I would sit in there for the first trial and I recognized a guy on the jury and I didn't say anything and he kept trying to say to the judge that he knew me and the judge told him it's not your turn to speak, you will speak when I call on you.
COUNSELOR: Oh wow.
PATIENT: And so it kind of made a little of a comedy theme there too. But.
COUNSELOR: Was he a, a part of the final jury? Or was this during jury selection? PATIENT: This was during the selection. During the selection, so he was excused. [0:09:13.4] COUNSELOR: Well you went to see somebody that you know
PATIENT: Absolutely.
COUNSELOR: these are allegations against you, so I can imagine what that would be like. PATIENT: This guy that I worked with a long period of time at the base.
COUNSELOR: And so how did he respond (inaudible)?
PATIENT: He seemed to understand a little bit about what was going on. He said that somebody else had gone through a similar situation. I found out that there was a, the worse, (inaudible) and we all started (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: Okay, so you decided to (inaudible) a support group? Okay.
PATIENT: It kind of helped get through that period of time.
COUNSELOR: How so? How so?
PATIENT: Just talking about the feelings of the, maybe the betrayal and the loneliness, the broken heart, loss of a loved, loved one in comparison to a death, those types of things. [0:10:28.0]
COUNSELOR: And whose, whose idea was that for you to (inaudible) in a support group?
about:srcdoc Page 16 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
PATIENT: The idea was my own. I just thought maybe I needed something to help me through (inaudible). COUNSELOR: Now who, who attended with you?
PATIENT: There was a couple of a guys I worked with at the base and there was some local women from town that they were there. And it was a mixed group and she was a regular, she was a Department of Social Service, social worker.
COUNSELOR: Okay. So that was to facilitate it, but (inaudible). And so did you get what you had come looking for and expected in that (inaudible) group? [0:11:31.7]
PATIENT: Yeah, I think that we got what we were anticipating. COUNSELOR: And what was that?
PATIENT: Just kind of a understanding of what was, what was going on. Why (inaudible) going on. How relationships change; how people change and through time things aren't always what they seem to be.
COUNSELOR: And, and, and what did it seem like it, it was to you that it (inaudible)? Why did you have (inaudible)?
PATIENT: Well my wife and I had a pretty difficult time at times. She was having migraine headaches and I found out that she would be abusing prescription drugs. She was taking Codeine and Percocets and she'd go into the doctor's office and get a shot for migraines and she'd be in bed for two or three days. [0:12:42.0] And that was really, I had taken an oath (ph) and stuff because I got to take time off from work, stay home with her, take care of the kids (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: What did that feel like?
PATIENT: It wasn't in the mind to do it, it was more in the, that I was getting criticized by those around me because I was taking so much time. I said, well you don't really understand the situation. There was a couple of times we had to take her in for drug addiction and that, that's her spirits (ph) (inaudible) and help and understand the situation.
COUNSELOR: What (inaudible) [0:13:44.6]
PATIENT: Dealing with, with the drugs, it was really something. A pharmacist was the one that brought it to my attention and I underst-, understood it a little bit better and what it was like to go through the withdrawals. I understood that there's more, someone (inaudible) coming off the highs and I worked as a, as a Sunday school teacher at the church youth committees (ph) and helped me to understand some of the things the kids were going through (inaudible) and alcoholic parents, some drugs and (inaudible) out them.
COUNSELOR: Sure. And so having an under, so having had experience helped you better understand what your wife ended up going through? [0:14:48.8]
PATIENT: Oh yeah.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible) And maybe understand a little bit about your experience, experience?
about:srcdoc Page 17 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
PATIENT: It, it is my, just the one person at home because everybody else is around (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: Sure. So you, the children. How did your daughters cope with your wife's drug addiction or her withdrawal or isolation?
PATIENT: I honestly don't know. They just seemed to be living their normal lives.
COUNSELOR: Would you, would you ever talk to them about what was going on or did you just try and pretend with them that mom would be out for two or three days like, how, how?
PATIENT: I just told them mommy's sick and she has to take medication to get better. They just kind of understood that mom's [treatment was expensive] (ph) (inaudible). [0:15:49.7]
COUNSELOR: Now what was your wife's role in the family and in the home? How did her being out for two or three days affect what was happening?
PATIENT: Basically she did the work. She just was homemaker and for the [couple of things] (ph) and stuff like that I'd do the laundry and the girls would do the dishes. It just kind of changed the, everything, pattern that, that, as far as upsetting things, (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: So you [0:16:36.0]
PATIENT: after a while you get into a different routine. You have to make some changes. COUNSELOR: Was it all frustrating for you or?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: Was it a sad time for you? Was it...?
PATIENT: I didn't really feel (inaudible) something that I was (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: I was wondering Tim as I'm talking with you I notice in previous sessions, feelings, you know, for you. Have you, (inaudible) ask it, when you think about feelings, like if I ask you how you feel about something or how you experience it, do you think you're, that you can identify feelings easily or is that more of a challenge for you? [0:17:34.9]
PATIENT: Sometimes it's a challenge and other times it's really not (inaudible). COUNSELOR: Under what conditions is it a challenge and (inaudible)?
PATIENT: In my relationship now we're starting to get (inaudible). I try to [get her up] (ph) right away because it (inaudible) it really doesn't stop and if she continues, I will continue and it's get to the point where it becomes hurtful and then after the fact I've got to think about it (inaudible) who's the big, (inaudible) their fault and if I wasn't (inaudible) maybe she'd accept some of the responsibility and other times when people like her can act more caring for others than about myself. [0:18:50.9]
COUNSELOR: So maybe the feelings are compassion or even passion and you feel sympathetic for someone or, those feelings are easier to access for you. How is it, because we haven't really talked a whole lot about
about:srcdoc Page 18 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
your childhood and your childhood years and I'm curious to hear about that time of your life and what kind of kid you were, parents, what, tell me about your childhood.
PATIENT: My childhood, I was raised predominantly by my mother (ph), except for the summertime I would go to my grandparents.
COUNSELOR: Okay and when was that? Why was that, (inaudible) brought you up here to your par, grandparents and stuff?
PATIENT: Well with the first time was when my young, second sister was born and I spent the summer up there and I enjoyed the fact and I think my grandparents liked that they had, I kept coming back to work during the summers on the farm. [0:20:06.8]
COUNSELOR: So you were how old?
PATIENT: I started out when I was six years old. And I would go out with them and help with the chickens and the cats and stuff.
COUNSELOR: You would help who? Your grandfather and grandma or?
PATIENT: Yeah, both. My grandmother took care of the chickens; my grandpa would take care of the cats in the barn.
COUNSELOR: Is, is this here in Illinois? PATIENT: Mm-hmm.
COUNSELOR: Okay, where in Illionois? PATIENT: Eastern.
COUNSELOR: And, and, and help me remember where, where do you fall (ph)? You don't have any siblings?
PATIENT: I'm the oldest.
COUNSELOR: You're the oldest.
PATIENT: I have three sisters.
COUNSELOR: Okay, and they're all younger than you? PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Okay, what's their ages? Because you're 50? PATIENT: Yeah. I'm 50; my older sister is going to be 48. COUNSELOR: What's her name?
about:srcdoc
Page 19 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
PATIENT: Missy. Susan is going to be 45. Murray is going to be like third 41 and my other sister is going to be 35. [0:21:26.8]
COUNSELOR: And what's her name? What's her name?
PATIENT: (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible) Have you all have the same parents or, how is that?
PATIENT: Yeah, we're all, my mom and dad are still together.
COUNSELOR: So how, how long are they married now?
PATIENT: (crosstalk) Probably like 50 years.
COUNSELOR: Okay so they got married and had you? Okay. And they're still together.
PATIENT: My dad worked second shift my whole life.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible) second shift? And how, how did that impact the family (inaudible) with that? He, he worked second shift, where was he working?
PATIENT: (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: Where was your dad working? [0:22:22.3]
PATIENT: Ford. Other than the fact that (inaudible), there really wasn't a, we would go to school and stuff, we get home at night, wouldn't be dad around the house to do things with. I was, sometimes it was difficult. Later on in life I understand the different things and how to cope with people and cope with, I guess we didn't see a whole lot of mom and dad with each other. They spent a lot of time away.
COUNSELOR: Like together, they would go places or? [0:23:15.1]
PATIENT: Yeah, they always wanted to go to somebody else's house to, to visit. A few weeks ago, my mom went in for a liver transplant. My dad came down and stayed at the house with us. And one of the things that he said that surprised me, but didn't surprise me is the fact that he said he didn't like kids. And when I think back, I asked after hearing that remark, I understand why some of the things happened the way they did.
COUNSELOR: What sort of things happened?
PATIENT: Well I seem to be the, the one to take charge of the needles (ph) and things. I did a lot of cooking. I did a lot of caring for the others. I was always the babysitter (inaudible) and it seemed like there was more time than mine (ph) doing that than mom and dad actually did. [0:24:25.1]
COUNSELOR: And so in a sense Dad didn't spend a whole lot of time around you all. From what he says now, that he don't like kids, kind of makes sense why he
PATIENT: Yeah.
about:srcdoc Page 20 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
COUNSELOR: wasn't around as much.
PATIENT: Because even on the weekends, if, if we didn't go up north, mom and dad would be in the car and they'd go places and (inaudible) groceries or times to, to go visit (inaudible) and even now that I'm, we end up, take his cell phone and spend time calling his brothers and sisters, but he doesn't, I [did not] (ph) got to hear from him.
COUNSELOR: And what, how does that make you feel?
PATIENT: [Absolutely nothing] (ph).
COUNSELOR: What are you thinking?
PATIENT: I don't know. I just think about the, what Kathleen and I have, the kids and what we want to do the rest of our lives. [0:25:33.1]
COUNSELOR: How does that work for you, [you think] (ph) when you, the things with the severiality (ph) of your dad not calling, not speaking to your dad and all that. How does that (inaudible) to other people that you focus on (inaudible). What does that do for you?
PATIENT: I just don't, I just don't dwell on it. I don't think about it at all. COUNSELOR: What I mean, what happened by it.
PATIENT: I'd probably get upset.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible) as anger about it? (crosstalk)
PATIENT: Oh yeah. Probably. He had time to do everything for everybody else, but very little time for anybody really.
COUNSELOR: Sure. Yeah, I could see how that would make somebody angry. I'm wondering how somebody could [make feel] (ph) if they were in, in a situation (inaudible). If it was somebody else and they had a father (inaudible) make them feel? [0:26:38.0]
PATIENT: Oh, they'd probably be pretty upset.
COUNSELOR: I would imagine so. (chuckles) I think rightfully so.
PATIENT: Life is too short to dwell on problems (inaudible) try to think about happier times and what we want to do. Now we'd like to move where it's warm to get away from here. We still have a couple grandkids here that we care about deeply and it's difficult.
COUNSELOR: So getting away from here what is here?
PATIENT: Well, wintertime is coming up and it's cold. I worked outside for 20 years and Kathleen's getting to the point she doesn't like the cold, she's got arthritis really bad, can't take it so (inaudible). So someplace warm, like Arizona or something. [0:27:43.1]
about:srcdoc Page 21 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
COUNSELOR: And are there any other reasons why you'd want to get away from here, outside the weather and the cold?
PATIENT: Just a change.
COUNSELOR: Change. Change? What would, what would that, what (inaudible) see you change (inaudible) think about it, change to what (inaudible)?
PATIENT: Change to a different society, different people. Make new friends. New church.
COUNSELOR: So, what would you be able to do differently in this new society new friends, (inaudible) what you, what society would you (inaudible)? [0:28:38.7]
PATIENT: Cold weather we just don't like to be out and about. We prefer to be more inside and stuff. There's a situation with the (inaudible) outdoor type.
COUNSELOR: And this society that (inaudible) climate. How would your society fit in (inaudible) society (inaudible)?
PATIENT: Some of the people of Champaign I (inaudible) and I, I just feel that some of them are just a little bit too high society and tend to look down upon you rather than, than looking at you on the same level and I can communicate to people at all levels and after a while of (inaudible) talking, trying to talk up to somebody, you'd be (inaudible) become a little bit turned off. [0:29:59.2]
COUNSELOR: Sure I can imagine that.
PATIENT: And I, probably have similar situations no matter where you go. I've been in Champaign now for about eight years and I just don't (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: (inaudible) respect you now (inaudible).
PATIENT: We looked at Tucson. Tucson has a college up there and we're both talking about going back to school.
COUNSELOR: Okay, what would you go back to school for?
PATIENT: She would like to pick up a second language and I would like to go into advertising. COUNSELOR: Oh really.
PATIENT: Advertising. [0:30:59.2] (inaudible) I look at a couple of good schools right in this area, but wintertime coming, with slippery roads and stuff, I, I just don't (inaudible) know that she won't [be there] (ph), so it makes it a little bit difficult to try to do things.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible) Do you guys have a timeframe on when you were going to go (inaudible)? You guys talk about it or?
PATIENT: [laughs] We talk about it every day. We keep (inaudible) next week, next week. Well, let's go today. Well, we got these to the point (inaudible) and stuff.
about:srcdoc Page 22 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
COUNSELOR: Yeah (inaudible) think about (inaudible). I'm, I'm wondering what were your visions and your dreams like when you were a child? What did you, what were your dreams? What did you see yourself doing? [0:31:58.0]
PATIENT: I don't know, I, at the time when I was working with my grandfather and my uncles on the farm, I kind of felt like that was what I liked, it's and it's a different pace in life. Right after high school when I graduated I went in the service and went through school to become an aircraft mechanic. And that was always my thing from that point on. 20 years I did that. I had satisfaction in the work that was performed because we knew that there was going to be somebody taking that airplane up to 35,000 feet, and depending on what we did. It was a lot of responsibility. [0:32:59.8]
COUNSELOR: I imagine that would be. (inaudible) first (inaudible) really do their job and was a case (inaudible). (laughs)
PATIENT: It was, it was kind of like a, a (inaudible) compared to a family because you spend a lot of time together. We'd go on deployments and be around these people at times more than what you were at home and stuff. You learned and, that's how these people, some of their cooperation and their
COUNSELOR: Was that an easy task for you or a difficult task to depend on? PATIENT: That was a fairly easy task. [0:33:51.1]
COUNSELOR: So, I, I guess I'm asking because you talked about being the oldest and you were giving a little more than the taking of your siblings and sort of being that role for as long as you were and it seemed like you would be more independent or people would depend on you more so than, than (inaudible).
PATIENT: I was independent but it took us some time to really get into the (inaudible) where we were basically depending on each other. I was a munitions guard and there was always two of us and we'd be on each side of a munition and he'd be watching behind me, I'd be watching behind him and we knew that if, if either one of us turned our heads that we were going to be
COUNSELOR: Right, so it is kind of like PATIENT: responsible for each other. [0:34:52.7]
COUNSELOR: So that accountability, responsibility would be able to be learned possibly from them (inaudible) period it sounds like. Did it feel that way in your own family that you had to be responsible for each other? If not, there was (inaudible)?
PATIENT: I was responsible for them, yes. I'm not sure what I felt at that time. Later on, when I talked about munitions because I'm building munitions, it was a very, very deep constant (inaudible). Responsibility for them.
COUNSELOR: What was your mom like? Growing up? [0:35:48.9]
PATIENT: Her and I'd sit and watch TV, stuff and, she just sounds (ph) more or less. I was in the evenings, I would be outside our neighborhood, a lot of kids my age or just a little bit younger so we played baseball, played football, ride our bikes around, played with them and stuff and so I would, that was kind of my time to be outside, generally around 9 o'clock (inaudible). [We'd watch] (ph) Combat if dad was (inaudible) we'd
about:srcdoc Page 23 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
watch Twilight Zone or the (inaudible). [0:36:56.4] I really didn't have any, really didn't have any strong relationship with mom. I got awards for school ever since elementary school I'd get up and fix my own cereal and I would get off to school and stuff. She did (ph) home when I got home. It's kind of that (ph) I had a better relationship with my grandmother and grandfather. I felt
COUNSELOR: Tell me about your grandmother and grandfather.
PATIENT: Oh my grandmother, she baked bread and baked biscuits and stuff. I'd work in the kitchen with her and taught me. As I got older and I'd be working out more in the farm, the chores, and I'd help my uncles with the hay and whatnot and I drove the tractors. [0:37:57.7] My grandmother was a very caring person. She was doing things, [work at church board] (ph). But she was, for herself, you know she was always making the meals for everybody and dealing with the household chores and whatnot. My grandfather would go to the grocery store once a month. Drive from Belvidere. On Sundays, my grandmother, grandfather and I would go to the health department where she cleaned offices and stuff and (inaudible) and other times there would be motorcyclists coming into town and she'd open up the house as a kind of a bed-and-breakfast type thing for them. [0:39:03.5] (inaudible) Just all kinds of different things going on with them. Changing things.
COUNSELOR: From home? That's home (inaudible) changing things?
PATIENT: I actually felt like I was doing something and being appreciated for it.
COUNSELOR: At home or with the grandparents?
PATIENT: With my grandparents.
COUNSELOR: How did your grandparents show appreciation (inaudible) [that you appreciated] (ph)?
PATIENT: Oh at the end of the summer I always got a check and that was how I bought my school clothes and stuff.
COUNSELOR: So, monetarily they'd show you? Any other ways they'd show you that they appreciated you or that you appreciated?
PATIENT: Oh yeah. They'd tell me quite a bit, they'd (inaudible) here, "Thank you for helping us." [0:40:04.2] It was just nice to get a hug once in a while.
COUNSELOR: Hugs. Sure (inaudible) kids you know? Because look at the (inaudible) someone.
PATIENT: Oh yeah. And now that, that I'm a grandfather we took a vacation this summer and we took Mike, which is our grandson he just turned ten took him on vacation with us. Went on a chartered boat, went ten miles out and crossed Lake Crystal and went fishing.
COUNSELOR: Oh wow.
PATIENT: Got a fish on the line and said here Mike and he tried it for a little while and lost the fish and he says, "I don't want to do this anymore" and I says okay, why don't you go up there with the Captain then. But we had fun.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it sounds like you had a lot of fun with your grandparents and now you doing that with
about:srcdoc Page 24 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
your own grandchildren. PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: What was that, what are the, what did that picture look like at home? (coughs) You said huge refuge (ph) appreciated the fun things to do, the hugs, they'd reward you for things. What did that picture look like at home with your parents?
PATIENT: Just totally different picture. Totally different picture.
COUNSELOR: And (inaudible)? (crosstalk)
PATIENT: I've spent, I've spent more time at home with the kids than they do, than I did with my parents.
COUNSELOR: [Don't they give their reasons] (ph)?
PATIENT: I don't know, my dad, he worked a second shift and the only time I seen him at night is if I forgot to take the garbage out.
COUNSELOR: And what kind of interaction would (inaudible) ? [0:41:58.1] PATIENT: Stress.
COUNSELOR: Stressful?
PATIENT: Yeah, I (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
PATIENT: Well I think, stop and think about different things. I just, I was like youths, always wanting to be someplace and do things but not really staying around home and doing things.
COUNSELOR: So at night when you (inaudible) How was that stressful? PATIENT: Hmm?
COUNSELOR: I was wondering when you saw him at night in bed saying (inaudible) garbage, what was that encounter like?
PATIENT: Oh, he was usually angry. Because I didn't do what I was supposed to do when I was, when he told me to and so he would get angry.
COUNSELOR: And what?
PATIENT: He'd come out and say, "Hey, out of bed now. Get down and there and get (ph) garbage." [0:43:01.3]
COUNSELOR: And he'd wake you up while you were sleeping?
about:srcdoc
Page 25 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
PATIENT: Oh yeah.
COUNSELOR: And so that's [one tiny little pay attention] (ph) to you and he had to come and get you to do something, hadn't taken the garbage out or done something [the way he wanted you to] (ph).
PATIENT: Yeah, because I don't remember him coming in to the bedrooms any other time when he came home other than if something wasn't right.
COUNSELOR: In what ways did, did your dad express his anger he showed (inaudible)? PATIENT: Quite often with a belt.
COUNSELOR: How would you describe how he used the belt?
PATIENT: On today's terms he would have been in jail.
COUNSELOR: Thinks physical abuse [for] (ph) physical abuse? [0:43:56.5]
PATIENT: Yeah, probably classified as physical abuse because it wasn't just one or two smacks. That's (ph) at about 10 or 12 and even then sometimes it would be more.
COUNSELOR: What would make him stop or how long did it stop?
PATIENT: When he thought he got to the point where you learned your lesson and you were going to learn your lesson his way.
COUNSELOR: And how did he res-how, how did you typically react to that (inaudible)? You shake your head. Shaking your head. [0:44:59.3]
PATIENT: Sometimes you can take a belt and swing at me and I'm going to make you as tired as you can, I was just dropped. He would have to grab my arm and lift me.
COUNSELOR: You would just drop? And just drop your body weight ? PATIENT: Yep, we all did.
COUNSELOR: Well, (inaudible) Tim?
PATIENT: Difficult. I never laid a hand on my own kids. I mean, even today I'll, I'll stop and think what I went through and just get (inaudible). I told them if I do this you can call the cops. [0:46:08.4] (inaudible) wail me. I was 16 years old and he was going to do it one time and I raised my fist and [laid him out] (ph).
COUNSELOR: At 16 you tried to assert yourself [and say I'm not taking this] (ph).
PATIENT: At 17 my (inaudible)
(Audio gap)
COUNSELOR: [saying that you tried to] (ph) (inaudible) onto the surface because they didn't want you to go
about:srcdoc Page 26 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
have anything to do with it? Did you end up saying good bye?
PATIENT: No. I didn't really care about it and I just (inaudible). [0:47:06.9]
COUNSELOR: How could you understand your dad's anger? At that dinner in your childhood (inaudible)? PATIENT: I don't understand.
COUNSELOR: What do you, when, when (inaudible) your father (inaudible) out and then angry and the way he acted when you were in the 9th grade. Why did you think he was doing it or why did you think he was an, so angry?
PATIENT: Sometimes I just thought he was just being too overly aggressive (inaudible). Maybe so he can get something (inaudible) at the belt once, maybe twice but to just get angry quite often again (inaudible) [0:48:07.0]
COUNSELOR: Did he drink at all or?
PATIENT: Not that, not very much. Not that I remember. He did more than drinking when he was a kid.
COUNSELOR: Did he show anger towards your mom?
PATIENT: He usually jumped in the car and left when they started fighting and I don't think, what I tend to do now is I just run (ph). I don't want to do anything that (inaudible) I'll regret.
COUNSELOR: Do you, don't you think the two are related at your dad (inaudible)?
PATIENT: Oh I'm fairly certain it is because that's what I saw and that is what I learned. That was his way of dealing with this, can't fight with (inaudible) people. But now I'm, we're becoming a little bit more reactive with each other and so I, I don't feel that I get as angry as fast as, as what he did. [0:49:19.8] But I, I still have my moments where I get upset (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: So you see there's some similarities but there are differences PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: from your dad's anger.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: I definitely time goes fast and quickly. But how (inaudible) are you feeling to have (inaudible)?
PATIENT: (inaudible) I'm not a, now what, what happened in the past is in the past and just look toward the future and new things will come.
COUNSELOR: And so what, what do you think about over the course of this treatment us looking at the past in order to have the understanding of what's going on with you in the present? Do you think many of the two are related at all or? [0:50:18.1]
about:srcdoc Page 27 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
PATIENT: (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: Oh what you can look at so you learn?
PATIENT: Kathleen has tried to tell me all along, you're not like your parents. But she sees the same similarities. She says you're the same, but you're still different. So I kind of understand a little bit more. She sees things that, that happened, that probably happened all the way through and I was just blind to it. I didn't really want to see.
COUNSELOR: Why wouldn't you want to see it? PATIENT: I don't know, maybe just some of the patterns?
COUNSELOR: Sure. Yes, I'm sure it's going, rooted in some (inaudible) and some hurt and some anger and if I look at stuff (inaudible) bring up those memories and bring up the way I felt [at that time] (ph) and so I don't want to look at it, I don't want to, I would rather not. [0:51:33.6]
PATIENT: I think I'm (inaudible) a little older, older and a little wiser and understand some of the things that did happen that just because they happened doesn't mean they have to continue.
COUNSELOR: Exactly. Exactly. And so I think a part of this Tim is sometimes our presents have done things that have gone and that's are rooted in things that happened to us in the past or what life was like for us like a child that carries that with us. And I would hope that as we continue working on these things that we can explore some of that together and I, I don't want to push you to look at anything unless you are ready and comfortable in doing that so if at any point that we're talking about your childhood and your dad and feeling uncomfortable or things come up it's okay to say and that let's talk about something else and if you haven't looked at this stuff in a while it can become intense. [0:52:50.3]
PATIENT: Sure.
COUNSELOR: But there is some bound to trip on that net your parents (inaudible) get a chance to talk about it. Talk about this friction with your dad (inaudible) dropped your weight, it's like you couldn't say or you couldn't speak or but to finally now that you're older, wiser, more mature, finally let that child speak about what that was like and it'd be okay and knowing that I'm not going to wail on you or you're not going to get wailed on but to be in a safe space that (inaudible).
PATIENT: One of my favorite movies is Bruce Willis as a kid. And when he sees his childhood (inaudible) and he understands at an older age why things happened the way they did when he was a kid.
COUNSELOR: So you think that would be helpful at all? [0:53:51.3] PATIENT: Oh, yeah.
COUNSELOR: And maybe you could look at, you may end up looking at your parents' relationship and how does that impact your present relationship. Who knows, it could be something (inaudible). So, I think this worked really good with you being as open as you have been and sharing this stuff I think that's where again, that's where it starts. (inaudible) So thank you for sharing.
PATIENT: Thank you.
about:srcdoc Page 28 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
COUNSELOR: Oh, you're welcome.
PATIENT: (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible) Did you want us to meet next week?
PATIENT: In two weeks.
COUNSELOR: In two weeks? Okay. Let me ask you this and when you say two weeks, what is that about? [0:54:41.4]
PATIENT: Well, it's kind of a (inaudible) issue. (inaudible) it gives us a little bit more time to (inaudible). It gives me a little bit of time to reflect on what we've talked about and think things a bit.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Would you mind sharing with me why you need to do two weeks and that share with me what you've reflected on during the week that we hadn't met at the beginning of the session just so I know how you're processing. [You know, the work.] (ph) This can be intense work.
PATIENT: Sure.
COUNSELOR: So, I'll be curious to hear how this affected and impacted you. Okay? Okay. I, I don't have my calendar here. Let's see. [0:55:51.2] (inaudible)
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: If it's a money issue, I did send that to the Director with the change that he request, that he wanted you to know what it was and (inaudible) included (inaudible) and (inaudible) what would be. So 35 dollars is too much (inaudible) Tim. (inaudible) [0:56:48.9]
PATIENT: (inaudible) It's probably (inaudible). Just about make our house payment (inaudible). Social Security is such a joke.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, that you were telling me. And did you ever finish the [0:57:42.9] END TRANSCRIPT
TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Collins, November 16, 2006. Therapist: Betty. Yeah, so I apologize for not being meet with you on last week, but (coughs) I was (coughs) under the weather.
PATIENT: That's all right. That, that does happen. I got sick. COUNSELOR: Changes (inaudible).
PATIENT: Fighting. Myself. It's been an interesting couple of weeks though.
  about:srcdoc Page 29 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
COUNSELOR: Okay, what's, what's been interesting about it? (inaudible)
PATIENT: I don't know, it's not really interesting because like I've discovered that I don't dare go without my medication stuff because I turn into a real jerk.
COUNSELOR: Oh, okay.
PATIENT: Now I get into one big blowout fight a couple weeks ago. [0:01:01.2] COUNSELOR: (coughs) You and Kathleen? (coughs)
PATIENT: Yeah. She said she's going to a divorce lawyer and I don't know what starts them, I don't know what, I, I just don't like to fight but it takes me a while to realize what's going on and stuff. We both kind of pick at each other and I don't know, we dig and we dig and we dig back and forth until bits (ph) fall to bits. Like an all out war.
COUNSELOR: What, what has happened over these last couple of weeks?
PATIENT: Well the third of November was my birthday and things didn't happen until after that. [0:01:54.3] We've been trying to find a, a new bed and stuff has been running back and forth to Sears and to a number of places and I actually don't know what started where or why, but I just got to a point where I said enough is enough and we both started screaming and yelling at one another and she went in one room, I went in the other room. That's where we stayed for three days and it seemed like things settled back down and, but read something about Zoloft that keeps us, don't stop taking it, that you have to be taken off of it gradually or something. [0:02:57.0]
COUNSELOR: You [left that] (ph) taking yours?
PATIENT: Well for two days I missed the whole thing, pills. [0:03:01.8] COUNSELOR: What, what happened over this course of two days that PATIENT: I just didn't -
COUNSELOR: caused you to miss it?
PATIENT: That's where I really started spiraling downhill.
COUNSELOR: Was there any particular reason why you didn't take them?
PATIENT: Why I missed them? Now the first day it was just we got up, went in for breakfast and stuff and I was supposed to take them when I got home and I didn't. And the next day I had to go down to the VA Hospital over here so I didn't get them then because I got up so early in a rush that. I haven't missed them since.
COUNSELOR: Have you ever missed them before? PATIENT: Yeah. Pretty much the same results.
about:srcdoc Page 30 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
COUNSELOR: As far as anger and -
PATIENT: Yeah. Things seem to be, I won't to say they're back to normal because I don't really know what normal is, it's just an understanding of what you're accustomed to that things are better off right now. [0:04:07.7]
COUNSELOR: Okay, how so?
PATIENT: We're getting along. We're actually communicating and we're both nice with each other. It hums (ph). No shouting matches, no screaming, no attitude toward one another. It, one of the things that bothers me a little bit and she has this way of judging the future by my past actions. She says oh we're going to, we decided to go to the Karda's for Thanksgiving. [0:05:04.2] And she said, "Now I don't want you getting an attitude with this, that, and the other with the kids or anybody while we're there." And I said I don't really intend to, I would really like to go and have a good time and she said, "Well I'm just not going to tolerate any, anything." And I said why don't you just stop, right now, okay? I really didn't know what else to say at that point and she got upset with me.
COUNSELOR: (crosstalk) What, what were you thinking, what were you feeling? (inaudible)
PATIENT: Well I told her I, that I thought she was picking at me. I said give me a chance to actually show myself instead of trying to set me up.
COUNSELOR: Or assume that this is how you're going to respond or react?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: What is that you think she's setting you up for when you say? [0:06:23.1]
PATIENT: I, I really don't know if this setting up or just what, what it is but it's like she's expecting me to blow up. [I hate to just bother] (ph). I don't know what she (inaudible) I guess.
COUNSELOR: So it's because of past actions and things that she automatically assumes that Thanksgiving when she really has no one [guiding her yet]? (ph) That the same things would happen as already may have happened before in previous (inaudible)? [0:07:28.4]
PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah, if, it sometimes, I don't know, I, it's not that I dislike the kids coming over and doing things and stuff, but, I just kind of expect too much out of them I guess.
COUNSELOR: Those are your grandkids?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay. And you expect a lot out of them, what do you mean?
PATIENT: Well, if, if they get their toys out, I like for them to put them away, they leave them out. She says, oh they're just kids, let them be. Do it later. I'm just okay, and I'll live (ph). [0:08:15.7] Mike has these dances and stuff that he does and nobody really cares for them and his dad yells at him all the time for it, and I'll say to him, you know Mike if you didn't do that, your dad wouldn't, and right away Kathleen's telling me it's not your card (ph), just, just let him be, he's just a kid. So, I'm, I'm trying to separate that portion of it.
about:srcdoc Page 31 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
COUNSELOR: What do you mean?
PATIENT: Don't be so controlling of them I guess. I don't let them do their thing.
COUNSELOR: Do, do you view how you respond to them as being controlling? Or is this a way of someone else's just (inaudible)? [0:09:06.4]
PATIENT: I don't think it's control, it, it, maybe I expect more out of them. Maybe my expectations a little bit too much.
COUNSELOR: Mike is how old?
PATIENT: Mike is ten.
COUNSELOR: Ten? And then the other (inaudible)? PATIENT: Geanie is four.
COUNSELOR: Is four? Okay. Have you given any consideration as to why you take this approach or Kathleen takes a different approach? Are there differences in values or, or are you all for totally different (ph)?
PATIENT: I guess it was the way I was raised. Not only the way I was raised, but when I was in the service. [Now there were] (ph) certain things that were expected of you. Everything was expected to be neat and orderly and, and precise. [0:10:04.3]
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: And there were reasons for that. I should be able to expect Mike to put things away and stuff, but I don't think anybody's ever showed him how to clean his room and things. And so his parents will go in there and just kind of bag everything up and, and throw it away. I don't do that, but I just think that they should pick up their toys when they're done playing and put them away. That was expected of me.
COUNSELOR: When you were a kid?
PATIENT: (Chuckles) Yeah (ph).
COUNSELOR: Well what happened or, if you didn't put your toys away or didn't pick up behind yourself or? PATIENT: We got a pretty good wailing with a belt.
COUNSELOR: Was this dad or mom?
PATIENT: Both.
COUNSELOR: Both? Okay.
PATIENT: Both. [0:11:00.9]
about:srcdoc
Page 32 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
COUNSELOR: And this is for things like toys not being put away or?
PATIENT: No, not just toys but basically everything in general in your room. Make sure your laundry's put where it needs to be and make your bed, and pick up things. You know I see my parents as demanding so much in the past. My grandparents didn't do that.
COUNSELOR: What was the difference? It's, it seems like you're remembering some things or reflecting them? [0:11:52.9]
PATIENT: Well, just sitting here and reflecting back, my parents better (ph) come in the room at 5 o'clock, just, "time to do the chores" and it was never harsh or rough. It was kind of mellow and my grandmother was a lot more so than, you know. But, but for some reason things were different between the two. Obviously my parents and grandparents, they just didn't expect me to, my grandmother would make the beds. And, I don't know. I think about it now maybe I am being, being a little bit harsh, with, with the kids in general. (crosstalk) [0:12:58.4]
COUNSELOR: Do you see yourself like your grandparents or do you see yourself as your parents and (inaudible)
PATIENT: I see myself more like my parents. COUNSELOR: How so?
PATIENT: The strictness. And the placing demands on them and I think we'd be that, we, we'd have a better relationship if I just treated the kids with kindness and left the major responsibilities to their parents.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Major responsibilities?
PATIENT: I let them tell the kids what they need to be doing and stuff. Even though they don't, it's not really my place to say anything to the kids. Maybe I should say something to them. Or maybe it's not my place at all to say anything. Just let it be.
COUNSELOR: So, let me understand this, your grandparents you said that you did have chores, right? But your grandparents weren't as harsh or demanding? [0:13:57.4]
PATIENT: Well I had chores and stuff and worked out in the barn. I, I put the cat food out for the cats, I fed the cats, and scatted hay for the, for the cows, a lot of things I did. I got in the corn crib and actually shoveled the corn into the auger because it was easier for me to get through that little hole on top of the pen than it was for anybody else. It was just a lot of things to do on a farm.
COUNSELOR: Sure. But your grandparents they still, they held you, they had some expectations for you it sounds like, but they weren't as harsh about seeing what they got done or, as your parents?
PATIENT: Yeah, my grandfather seemed to be right there and he expected me to do things, but, how do I say it? He wasn't critical of it and if I didn't do things, well he had a way of saying you know, we got to get this done and (inaudible) thing. [0:15:02.9]
COUNSELOR: Was your dad or your mom, they were?
about:srcdoc Page 33 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
PATIENT: They were more, this is what needs to be done get it done or else.
COUNSELOR: Or else. Okay. So when you say that you see more of your parents in yourself and the way you treat Geanie and Mike, do you see yourself a person in, in that manner? Do this or else or do you see yourself like as your grandfather, we need to get this done type of approach?
PATIENT: Sometimes I see if they get it done or else.
COUNSELOR: And so you see how that negatively impacts how your relationship with them? You said that you, you, things were maybe better between you all if you weren't as demanding or critical or I think you said harsh? [0:16:08.6]
PATIENT: Yeah, I think so.
COUNSELOR: Why do you think your grandfather approached you in that manner, rather than the way your parents did?
PATIENT: It's, maybe he just realized that he really wasn't the parent that he was the grandparent and he was going to do things in a more loving way.
COUNSELOR: So grandparents should be more loving than parents? [0:17:01.1]
PATIENT: Well, not, no, not more loving, but I think there's a different expectation between parents and grandparents. Parents are ones that have to deal with the everyday garbage and things, they're the ones that have to, to raise you and feed you and nurture you and stuff and then grandparents can just kind of spoil you and send you back.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible) at that, but if I recall you were with your grandparents for a whole summer, so
PATIENT: I was with my parents, well my grandparents every summer from the age I was five up until I graduated high school.
COUNSELOR: So it seems like they had day-to-day they had to deal with the, day-to-day and
PATIENT: It was just different with them for whatever reason. We'd get it together and we'd go to the grocery market once a month. It was a, a simpler life I guess. [0:18:14.7]
COUNSELOR: Slip, a simpler life in what sense?
PATIENT: We baked our own bread, we had our own garden that we worked in and so many different things that we did, but yet when I was at home and going to school and stuff, it just seemed to be kind of a rat race. And as society has changed, it seems that we rely more on technology these days than we do the simple things and we seem to forget to just take time to smell the roses, rather than hustle and bustle about. [0:19:10.7]
COUNSELOR: Do you think your parents were doing a lot of the hustle and bustle and then not leading simple life or?
PATIENT: Yeah I do. I think my parents enjoyed being out away from home and whether they were at home.
about:srcdoc Page 34 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
COUNSELOR: Well, what, I guess what we'll want them to (inaudible at 0:19:41.4) out of the home or in home (ph)
PATIENT: I don't know, it's just recently that my dad said that he didn't like kids. I kind of wonder if that was some of the reasons, he just didn't, didn't know how to deal with them or didn't want to deal with us, it just, what exactly was the problem. But I remember him telling me years ago that I had two aunts very close in age and when they 10 years-old my grandfather took them both in a room and told them to fight because that's what they did all the time is they fought. And the minute they stopped, he'd wail on them with a belt, he says I told you to fight and that's just not the way to raise kids. [0:20:42.5]
COUNSELOR: Why not?
PATIENT: You're, you're not, I, I can't expect anything, punishment for kids that didn't (ph), I don't believe in that physical. You know that's real close to physical abuse. That's not loving the child. It's done more out of anger than anything else and I've never struck any of the kids. It's one thing that I won't do.
COUNSELOR: So that separates you, or make you different from your father? PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Well remembering Tim, what, what ways are you like your father that you're not comfortable with? [0:21:46.2]
PATIENT: The anger.
COUNSELOR: Can you tell me a little more about that?
PATIENT: It just doesn't seem to take a whole lot at times to, to trigger things. It's like having a, almost, it's just the mine that is buried in the ground, the thing doesn't explode, but you're, you're treading lightly to try to avoid it but sooner or later you step on the thing and it just explodes. [0:22:46.0] And instead of realizing sooner that the pain and suffering it's going to cause is just not worth it. Because I saw quite a bit of that with my parents I guess. I remember my dad running out to the truck and throwing it in reverse and spinning the tires all the way out the driveway and stuff, but I just think to...
COUNSELOR: What are you thinking? [0:23:51.0]
PATIENT: All the similarities and examples that I've had. You know I thought I'd changed through the years in some sense I did, in others I haven't. I want to live this great life, I'm a Christian and doing for others, whatnot, but if I don't treat people the way that I expect to be treated, I'm not doing it.
COUNSELOR: Sure. [0:24:49.2]
PATIENT: Then why does it have to be such a difficult thing to control?
COUNSELOR: What makes it so difficult for you? Is it hard to put into words or (inaudible)?
PATIENT: I guess, I don't know if it's some sort of systematic chemical imbalance or if it's just, things build up and you get this adrenaline rush and you become aggressive? I honestly don't know. [0:25:50.6]
about:srcdoc Page 35 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
COUNSELOR: When you think about your dad and your relationship, the difference between your rearing from your parents and grandpar, grandparents, I remember you shared some things last time about the way that your dad treated you. Do you think that maybe on some levels you might be still angry about those things and angry toward dad or toward mom or?
PATIENT: I hadn't really thought so, but maybe on a subconscious level? I just don't like the way that I was brought up. [0:26:46.1]
COUNSELOR: Because sometimes Tim when things happen to us as kids, where it sounds like your dad was a big, tough guy and maybe intimidating or you were a little guy or whatever the case is, I'm sure, you talk about the way he used to discipline you, you would fall and become dead weight and just kind of disassociate from the whole situation. It doesn't mean that you don't feel the hurt or you don't feel the anger and you don't feel the feelings that go along with that, but for whatever reason I'm wondering what would have happened if you would have expressed that. Because you feel safe enough to express when you were angry at your dad.
PATIENT: No, that would have made it twice as bad.
COUNSELOR: So where does all that go? That's the question. When people don't express their feelings and don't, and they're hurting, where, where does it go? [0:27:50.9]
PATIENT: You either have to get rid of it somehow or, I'm going to take the example of a tissue box, pull all the tissues out and then try putting them all back.
COUNSELOR: So, you s PATIENT: You just can't do it.
COUNSELOR: stuck in it right? Do you think you got rid of this stuff or do you think you're more like a tissue box that's been stuffed?
PATIENT: Maybe I am carrying a lot of it around with me. There's only so much that you can put back in the box.
COUNSELOR: Because if you were to look at your life Joe, look at your relationships, look at your marriage, look at your relationship with your children, relationship with your grandparents, I mean with your grandchildren, how can you see that maybe there's, that you're carrying some anger from your past in the present now? [0:28:49.6]
PATIENT: I'd see some of the anger versus, but against my parents. I see some of the anger for my ex-wife in the divorce and what she did and I see some of the anger towards my employer, you know what I had gone, go through with workman's comp and I'm still fighting Social Security on a number of things. Sometimes there's just too much to handle at some poink (ph).
COUNSELOR: It sounds like that would be overwhelming for you to carry that load, to carry that much with you and not have an outlet to release, or an appropriate outlet. It sounds like sometimes you have released it but it hasn't been in the best way. [0:30:00.4]
PATIENT: Yeah. Just a lot of times I wonder if I've actually released it or if I just pack it down. You think you've got it under your control and you've suppressed it, but eventually it's going to spring back.
about:srcdoc Page 36 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
COUNSELOR: Sure. We talk about that walking that tread and, this, this, just out of your control and it kind of explodes and goes off. (inaudible) yeah, that's how it works. It's like a sponge, or even like a Crock-pot, I use those metaphors. A sponge can only soak up so much before it starts dripping again, or you have a bucket under a leaky roof. The bucket can only hold so much of that water before it starts spilling out.
PATIENT: Spilling over.
COUNSELOR: You know a Crock-pot can only hold so much, spoon, or a tea kettle can hold only so much steam before it comes out in some kind of a way. So we think we're packing in, we're trying to deal, deal with it later, we'll deal with it later or we won't deal with it at all, but it's getting packed and packed and packed and it comes out some kind of way and it's better that you find ways where you can control how much of it comes out when it comes out and how it comes out, but when we pack it down it has a mind of its own. Right? It comes out all types of ways and that's when anger tends to ruin our relationships or ruin our jobs or our lives. [0:31:29.1]
PATIENT: Last summer I spent, well not last summer, but summer before last 2005. I had a chair that I had out in the woods. And I'd just go out there and sit down, I'd count the cars go by on the freeway. Or I'd just sit there and watch the birds, the squirrels and I, I seemed so relaxed and stuff. And I [can't even] (ph) stand is my getaway. And then this year I've been, I just, it seems like I've been so busy but I'm not sure what I've been busy doing. We're always on the run going someplace doing something. [0:32:34.5]
COUNSELOR: So it doesn't sound as if you have enough outlets where you can get, where you can relax yourself or release or.
PATIENT: Yeah. Because I haven't been seeing any of my, my buddies or friends, whatnot. Guys I worked with at the base, they're over in Alton, I'm in Champaign and I really don't enjoy driving that distance and stuff. I did go up last week, saw my buddy over in Berkeley, I did drive there.
COUNSELOR: And how's that?
PATIENT: That was good. They were both, him and his wife were both ecstatic. Hadn't seen me in a long time. But we talked on the phone off and on through the, through the couple years and stuff and then. Had a good visit. [0:33:38.7]
COUNSELOR: Yeah. It seems like it, I just now, I mean just noticing you today Tim, you seemed a lot lighter than you have in previous sessions for whatever reason. In previous sessions you seemed like you were burdened, heavy, and today for whatever reason you seem like you're a little lighter than you have in the past. I'm not sure if you've, if you notice a difference in
PATIENT: I, I do notice a change. It was really nice to get over there and to see them and do something different than what we've been doing.
COUNSELOR: And did Kathleen go with you?
PATIENT: No. She didn't want to. But tonight they have a men's gathering at the church that I'm involved in. Spend some time with the other guys and a little bit of fellowship, getting to know some few more (ph) people, but. [0:34:46.9]
about:srcdoc Page 37 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: And just try different things.
COUNSELOR: Well that's good that, that you're having those things in mind because that is a healthy way to connect to people. Healthier way to stress relief, you know to find stress relief or to get to know other people and they open up other avenues for you to interact with people so you're not, especially as you say you and your wife are always together at home and it's easy to be frustrated with your own situation, and both of you guys I think (ph) around each other kind of, you get on each other's nerves in a sense.
PATIENT: You get that friction working back and forth and all of a sudden a, there's a little bit of a flame there between the two of you.
COUNSELOR: Do you think that your dad would have sought out men's fellowship groups or things like that to help him, to help himself? [0:35:46.8]
PATIENT: He did later after he retired. COUNSELOR: Okay. But as a kid and.
PATIENT: He moved to Eureka in, in '84 and it wasn't until the late '80s, early '90s when he joined the Knights of Columbus with the church and stuff. And all of, I'm going to say pretty much 90 percent of his communication is with his brothers and sisters or in-laws and whatnot, the other 10 percent might be the rest of the family.
COUNSELOR: Okay. I'm just, was curious because you mentioned that in a lot of ways you see yourself like your father but over the years it seems like you've done some changing and I was just wondering if there was a difference in the way that you're seeking out help, if that was different from the way your dad did things. [0:36:58.5]
PATIENT: My dad would have never gone to seek out any type of help for anything. You know he's the man and that's just, I don't know, it seems like society has changed quite a bit, that there has been a different focus on men than women. Men aren't afraid to go out and, to talk to people to find out what their problem might be. I've gone out for a little bit of therapy before and my dad would have never done anything like this.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Why not do you think?
PATIENT: I, he was the man. It was just, men didn't do that sort of thing. If they did, they were sissies. [0:37:55.6]
COUNSELOR: And is that what he instilled in you to a certain degree? That you had to be the man and not a sissy or?
PATIENT: In some ways, yes, but I don't know, it's just a different expectation years ago and what there is now. Kathleen's dad was a policeman, worked down in Elmwood Park. They lived down on 75th Street and then she went to school at Bishop First (ph) school and we talked back and forth. [0:38:48.4 ] Her dad was very different from my dad and, but we're, we're about the same age and I think there was just different family values with people. And sometimes today I think that we've gotten away from what those family values
about:srcdoc Page 38 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
COUNSELOR: We as in you and Kathleen or we as in society?
PATIENT: I'm going to say more as a society. If we take a look at our cost of living, and everybody thinks that we've inflated over the years and now it takes a man to make money, as well as the woman to make money. Both parents work to raise their families and to have a roof over their heads based on costs and stuff. [0:39:49.6 ] And you can see a lot of the differences that have come about. And maybe that's not necessarily the case with all the people, but in some cases it's, it's quite a bit of the people the way kids are raised and stuff. I, you can take a look at society and the, look at the crime and stuff that's taking place. What has allowed that to happen? People, I stopped at Myers in Champaign after a couple hit the Flint store and the Wickson store and then the Brighton store. [0:40:50.9 ] 1 o'clock in the afternoon. Why is that? Just so many different values have changed in the years. Sometimes it can be a very wicked world.
COUNSELOR: So how does that affect you?
PATIENT: Maybe that's why I expect so much out of those around me. [0:41:46.9 ] With my grandkids, with my own kids. You can only protect them up to a certain point then we have to allow them to take control of their own actions because you, you're no longer with them all the time. And ultimately you raised them the best that you could. We've talked off and on with my parents about changes in the world and she says I'm glad we had kids when we did and she says, I wouldn't want any part of it, the world today raising the family and stuff because it's just so different. [0:42:43.3]
COUNSELOR: This is your mom talking? Okay. I wonder if you've ever considered talking to your mom about what life and the world was like for you as a kid when you were being raised. If you guys ever to talk about how things are now and whether, wonder what that discussion might look like.
PATIENT: It's an interesting thought.
COUNSELOR: What part what makes interesting?
PATIENT: Because I know my dad did have a lot of responsibility. There were times when shots (ph) were tough and they look at the car and just renow (ph) being in trouble. They've been in trouble throughout the years. [0:43:37.6] I think it was in 1970 when my dad got laid off. The only thing that we knew is he come home with boxes of groceries. We didn't what he came from. We didn't know about the part where Social Services and stuff like that. But when I went through that myself, I found out how belittling it was for the man.
COUNSELOR: Especially if you're a man's man right? A man who doesn't need help and all sorts of things be put in a situation where you aren't long-ago (ph) men. I can't provide, I can't take care of your families, have to seek out help. That can be crushing.
PATIENT: Absolutely.
COUNSELOR: Tim, we have to go ahead and stop now. Are you still wanting to do two weeks? [0:44:43.0]
PATIENT: I think so. I think so.
COUNSELOR: Okay, well let me know whenever, if you ever want to resume back to once a week then. Definitely let me know.
about:srcdoc Page 39 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
PATIENT: Have you been able to set up anything with a psychiatrist?
COUNSELOR: I put in an evaluation request and so I'm just waiting to hear back. I know it was like a waiting list. I have to find out where you are on that list, but I did submit once I think we lost one psychiatrist and so the one that's left has been trying to clear their caseload. So the request is in and so as soon as I hear something, then I'll let you know.
PATIENT: Because I'm kind of questioning in my mind the, I've been on Zoloft and I've been on Lexaprone now for probably six weeks and they don't know if it's normal for anybody to be on medication for as long as I have been. Because it, it seems like the Zoloft has been two years, is what it is. [0:45:56.0]
COUNSELOR: Okay, so you kind of want to, you want to look at, reevaluate it and (inaudible) you still should be on it? Okay.
PATIENT: And I don't know if there's anything different [0:46:11.5] END TRANSCRIPT
TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: November 30th. JB, Betty Johnson, therapist.
PATIENT: Look at that picture there.
COUNSELOR: Which picture's that?
PATIENT: Third flip (ph) fall colors, trees, and leaves on the ground. Prettiest time of the year.
COUNSELOR: What, fall is?
PATIENT: I think so.
COUNSELOR: What's, what's pretty about it do you think?
PATIENT: Just, you look at that and you see the colors and you look out around. [0:00:59.9] He did a good job [when he pictured nature] (ph). [It's painting in that] (ph). So many times you just take things for granted.
COUNSELOR: Anything in particular you're thinking about and did you think about that whole process about taking things for granted and?
PATIENT: Nope. Just slowing down and being able to just enjoy the moment. There was a time years ago when I went to my parents, my dad had retired from the shop and he built a house on Hillside and there was a pond in the back of the house and behind that was, was the woods. [0:01:50.8] About three or four acres and I used to go out there with my camera, set up in the woods and stuff and take pictures, but I got a beautiful picture across the pond of the house and a couple of deer with fawns and stuff standing right by the edge of the pond. You got the reflection in the pond of the house with deer. These (ph) like to sit down with this
  about:srcdoc Page 40 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
reminisce and things like that.
COUNSELOR: What other kinds of things would you be doing, would you normally reminisce on (ph)?
PATIENT: Just think about just the peacefulness of the moment and just not being a part of the everyday rat race. Just try to enjoy the callpart (ph) of the moment.
COUNSELOR: So do you'll (ph) have times like that now where you think of suicide (ph)? [0:03:00.1]
PATIENT: Every once in a while, I'd go off and (inaudible). This is (inaudible). My dad came along with some stuff, but I just don't, I just don't do much. Thanksgiving went to Davey and Anne.
COUNSELOR: (crosstalk) Oh, oh, that's Davey Anne. PATIENT: Took the kids, grandkids. [0:03:52.6]
COUNSELOR: And your wife had concerns you're telling me before about Dave and Anne's and how that time will be spent and what would happen. Did any of those things arise or how did it work out for you?
PATIENT: Well, my daughter-in-law's mom rode up with us and I, it wasn't, wasn't bad. It wasn't any bad moments or anything.
COUNSELOR: Well, good.
PATIENT: And she and her mom don't get along too well but Gary doesn't want to get involved too much with her anyway, but they like to try to avoid him. We wanted to try to make her feel part of the family as well.
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: Just, just everybody get along. Enjoy things. Have a good time, but if it turned to a fight, oh well. (ph)
COUNSELOR: How wa-, what do you think was different? That caused this type of turnout rather than (inaudible)?
PATIENT: I don't know. [0:05:00.4]
COUNSELOR: Did our meeting make anything different or, I mean?
PATIENT: It might.
COUNSELOR: Okay, okay.
PATIENT: Maybe the three of us getting along because we all feel about the same way. We're both, we're all three facing trials and struggles in our life, anger. And she's a breast cancer survivor.
COUNSELOR: So somehow you all got connected because of your pain and?
about:srcdoc Page 41 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
PATIENT: Yeah, I don't know just what it was. Everybody seemed to be just all right with everybody. And grandkids, so funny. [0:06:00.0]
COUNSELOR: What's fun (ph)?
PATIENT: I had gotten my haircut just the Wednesday before Thanksgiving and so my granddaughter hadn't seen me yet and we got over to the house and she said, "Papa, what, you lost all your hair."
[Laughter]
PATIENT: I said, yeah, for a little while.
COUNSELOR: So, so, so what made you decide to cut your hair? Would you say? (inaudible)
PATIENT: Wife had been talking about it and stuff. I usually get maybe a half inch or so on top up, I've never shaved my head since I've been in the service and stuff and I just wanted something different. It just got too hot all the time, I was getting tired of it. Just wanted it real short this time. [0:06:57.5]
COUNSELOR: And you look clean.
PATIENT: Thank you (ph). I guess you got to change things around a little bit once in a while.
COUNSELOR: What's that do to you and (ph) change things around?
PATIENT: Usually dip (ph) but don't look maybe (ph). Just need to kick yourself out of that rut or whatever.
COUNSELOR: Do you only feel that difference now I mean since you got your haircut it's hard to be in somewhat kind of a rut?
PATIENT: No. COUNSELOR: No? PATIENT: Feel the same.
COUNSELOR: It's, it's, because it's interesting though you came in, you look at the picture and you were talking about the pretty colors and fall and it seems like the fall represents change, innocence. And you talk about how it caused you to take a step back and put things in perspective and how much we may take for granted and things and stuff that you talk about now the haircut is about maybe changes and sometime you have to do things differently to get a different perspective on things. [0:08:10.7] It seems like this time of your life you're looking for something to be different or something. Trying to get perspective on things this is what this whole process has been about right?
PATIENT: It is. I try not to get uptight about things at least. Accept things for what they are and if I can change things, go (inaudible) and change it. If I can't, don't worry about it.
COUNSELOR: Because what happens with the worry?
PATIENT: It just builds inside you. You get to a point where you just might burst out in anger at someone.
about:srcdoc Page 42 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations
11/8/25, 6:48 PM
[0:09:09.0]
COUNSELOR: And so that's good. We got that small (ph) thing that you're trying to decrease is the outbursts, channeling your anger in less hurtful, explosive ways.
PATIENT: I get so frustrated with the bureaucracy of our government. One day. COUNSELOR: One day?
PATIENT: One day.
COUNSELOR: One day (inaudible)
PATIENT: Not a, I'm just, I'm struggling right now trying to get Social Security. I've got my VA Disability stuff, I just got a notice saying that they've increased it for the month of December. [0:10:08.9]
COUNSELOR: Oh good.
PATIENT: But, now Social Security, they, they seems like they just try to bury you into the system and so you just give up. I don't know.
COUNSELOR: How do you make sense of them (ph)?
PATIENT: I just accept it for what it is and just wait. Not much I can do about it to speed up the process.
COUNSELOR: So it's not like these are, this is one of those situations that if you can control something, control it or where if you don't, you can't worry too much about it? Yeah? (ph) [0:11:00.5]
PATIENT: I just, just not enough money to do everything that you'd like to do.
COUNSELOR: That's (inaudible) frustrating in a sense. I just (crosstalk)
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible) and then things for you that you would like to do but I wouldn't say that (inaudible) situation? Sure.
PATIENT: It's a pretty unique situation for the two of us. You know we did my wife's struggling with her pain and I struggle with my pain and. At times we have to take a moment to just try to understand each other and where we're coming from. Just wears on you. [0:12:00.5]
COUNSELOR: Sure, I can (inaudible) [how it happened] (ph).
PATIENT: Now Friday after Thanksgiving I got a call from the Credit Union. Wife had entered a, some contest where you had a expenditure involving 91 dollars I think it was, then you were entered into this contest and we got a phone call saying that we had, that we had won 100 dollars. That was very exciting.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I'm pretty sure it was.
about:srcdoc Page 43 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
PATIENT: She got off the phone, "I won 100 dollars!" I thought we won the lottery
COUNSELOR: [Laughing]
PATIENT: [and we both] (ph). I said what do you want to do with this? And she says, "Well what do you think?" I said, well how about going out and doing something pleasurable, we'll just go out and buy some groceries and give them away. She says, "That's a great idea." So we did. [0:13:01.5] We got two of the cleaners and (inaudible) rolled up and Salvation Army's out there and this guy was just a little bit obnoxious brought me to the point I wanted to drive off. It was just, you know we really don't have any other place to take this, so let's just go back and drive by this character. So we did and when we got inside I told the guy what had happened and he says, "The gentleman out there in the parking lot?" and I says, yeah. He says I had a pretty rough time with him too today. He says, I was [growled at] (ph), well he better get over it. So, we, we just give all 50 dollars away and called it a day.
COUNSELOR: Well, that's really neat. That must makes you feel good. How did it make you feel to be able to do something like that? [0:13:59.2]
PATIENT: I've done similar things of that in the past with the churches and I remember going to one house used the dove (ph). And the box had paper products and dish soap and stuff in it. First thing out of the little boy's mouth was, "Mama we have dish soap." And that was, you know walking into somebody's home you're bringing them all these gifts and things, you see their eyes light up and the wife was talking Tuesday night to somebody and she says, "Yeah, we did the same thing." And she says, "What brings it back to reality real fast is when you hear the neighbor's next door saying 'They're not coming to our house.'"
COUNSELOR: Why would they say that (inaudible)? [0:14:58.5]
PATIENT: Because they, these people had gone out and then they would just buy for one particular family and the kids saw them going into their, the other house and stuff and they thought they would be coming to their house too. Did you happen to see the John Stossel 20/20 last night?
COUNSELOR: I didn't.
PATIENT: Cheap in America?
COUNSELOR: No, I didn't see that. What was that about?
PATIENT: There's more people in a working classes, the working poor, that give more money in comparison to those that have the most money. You look at Ted Turner and, and he says, "I give away two billion dollars" and John says, "Yeah, but you still have twenty billion left. What are you going to do with that?" [0:16:05.7] I don't trust the system, I don't trust Social Security. I'm thinking, you get Social Security? Hmmm. How can you get that, but you have so much money? And here I am (ph) struggling and I can't get it. It was an interesting show.
COUNSELOR: Sounds like (inaudible) might help you put some things in perspective is what I mean. I mean, I mean, I think sitting here you talk about your own financial situation and frustrations and the struggles that you have as far as not being able to do what you would like to because you don't have money and then say, here you, once you do have money, I expect [it to be] (ph) in your pocket and you go and give it away to someone else who might need it and that's, that's interesting how that works. [0:17:04.0 ] And so I'm
about:srcdoc Page 44 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
just wondering what is it that you get out of that? And it's not just you apparently, it's, based on what you're saying (inaudible) the show is, a lot of the working poor and the working class.
PATIENT: People just (inaudible at 0:17:25.9) are fairly generous at giving away, I guess the way the guy said, last night was I've been blessed and whatever else I get above that I give to others. So they can feel blessed as well. But the Golden Rule do onto others as you would have them do onto you and so many times it just slipped away from us (ph).
COUNSELOR: Especially when we get caught up on like you were saying earlier the cares of the world or cares of our lives and get caught up in everything somehow that's easy to forget how to treat someone else or have a care for others despite you (ph) in our own struggles or in the face of our own struggles. [0:18:16.8]
PATIENT: At Christmas time I think it becomes so commercialized. What is the real true meaning of Christmas? What does a Christmas tree represent? I haven't been able to find anybody to tell me that. They didn't have one in front of that manger. Not in the middle of a desert up there.
COUNSELOR: So for you it's that thinking about the, let me ask you this: what, what does Christmas represent to you? How, how would you like to celebrate it or so it's not as commercialized? [0:18:58.9]
PATIENT: Instead of giving so much as gifts to each other and they say that the three wise men came with gold, frankincense and myrrh and the true meaning is supposed to be the whole basis of Christianity, the birth of Christ and accepting him. That a lot of people just think that it's just a time of, of Santa Claus and they spend as much money on everybody as they can. As far as family gathers, it's more personal desires and what it is real necessity, so to speak. [0:20:04.5]
COUNSELOR: So you talked earlier about being, being blessed that you can give blessings to others. Do you feel as though you're blessed Tim?
PATIENT: Yeah, I do. Because even though that, even though I'm in pain and wife's in pain and stuff, we still, I wake up every morning, there's nobody around my bed crying because I'm dead. That's a good thing. Every time I go over to the basin (ph) (inaudible) all selfish, there's one security cop that's out there, every time I ask him how he's doing, he's always got some sort of comical remark. [0:21:00.5] He says, "Well I'm able to stand upright, I'm not six feet under" and things along that line. He got the right perspective I think. No matter how bad you are, if you look around you can find somebody who's worse off than you.
COUNSELOR: That's true.
PATIENT: And it may not be more than two doors away from you, you just don't know.
COUNSELOR: Do you use that at all when, when you're feeling like you're in a rut? Do you use that type of perspective?
PATIENT: Mm-hmm.
COUNSELOR: Things could be worse or could, this could be happening or I'm not as bad as this? PATIENT: Things could be a lot worse. [0:21:55.2]
COUNSELOR: Putting in steel (ph) and looking in, in that perspective of how it doesn't always take away
about:srcdoc Page 45 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
your pain and doesn't always take away the struggle that affects (inaudible).
PATIENT: No, it doesn't.
COUNSELOR: Does it help (inaudible) so far?
PATIENT: It takes your focus off of. I remember so many times I had when I was out fishing and stuff standing in the middle of the river.
COUNSELOR: You were how old was this, when was this? When was this? [0:22:50.9]
PATIENT: Oh, this was when I was in the service up in Jersey. We would go out to the Hackensack River every morning we go to work. And some we go "Fish on" you got about 30 people standing all these guys pulling the rods and back and. One time I caught two. I had two hooks and I got them on the line and I must have toyed with them things for a good hour. It was funny. Said, "you going to pull them in" and I says they're a tag on again. And just as I got them in, get down with the net and [makes noise Schew] they go again. I said man they (inaudible) kind of strength in life. I think we could if we just didn't let so many things wear us down. [0:23:57.6]
COUNSELOR: I wonder, what, what do you think is the significance Tim of you reminiscing as much as you're reminiscing now. Thinking back to the time when I met you with the haircut and this example that you gave me. What is it, what do you think is going (inaudible) times and thinking back on?
PATIENT: Using the more peaceful times to help overcome the difficult situations I get in to. COUNSELOR: So look back at a time in your life where things were good, when you [0:24:51.5]
PATIENT: Yeah. Back away from some of the things that are troubling us now. They just, just, (inaudible) kind of a dull for a future. I just accept things for what they are, do what you can and don't worry about it. As long as we have what we need, I guess our wants are, you know worldly possessions are just worldly possessions. It's just stuff. No matter how bad it is or if you go through a divorce, it's only stuff. Stuff's replaceable, but when you're with somebody that you really enjoy their company, you really care for, then the goal is to try to spend as much time together to have feelings (ph) and enjoy just some of the simple things. Don't let difficult things get to you. [0:26:06.2]
COUNSELOR: What are the simple things in your life that you're trying to enjoy more of?
PATIENT: The grandkids. And my wife and I do have a lot of time together. We do enjoy each other's company, going out, doing some things. I got a, I got a band saw that's supposedly my Christmas present so I spent a few days putting it together and she says, "I want a lesson on how that works when we get done." [0:27:05.2] I said all right. When I got finished up, headed for (inaudible) and run a piece of wood through it and made some scrolls and she says, "Wow, that's pretty neat, you think I could do that?" I said, if you put your mind to it, you can. She says, "Well it looks dangerous" and I said well, it can be, but you just put your mind to it and think of the thing as a tool and you're going to use it for a purpose and just be careful, but not let the thing overpower you. If you think you're bigger than that, then you're going to have a problem, but just remember that that thing is dangerous, but it's only as dangerous as what you make it. And then she was pretty excited (inaudible). She says, "Now what do you use it for?" [0:28:05.2] I said well you use it for scrolling and making different things. In general, guys just like to have a workshop set up with various tools
about:srcdoc Page 46 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
for various purposes. And they come in handy. So she's got a number of things all set up for me.
COUNSELOR: [Laughs] More projects.
PATIENT: Still trying to put my workbench together, that she's wanted flower boxes with wood tulips and something to paint. She says, "Can I paint it?" I says well if you want to paint the projects, I'll make them, you paint them. She says it sounds like fun.
COUNSELOR: Well it sounds good you guys are working together. I'm wondering how that feels to be able to have this type of time together and the dialogue and? [0:28:59.8]
PATIENT: Some days it's good. Some days it's difficult, because (ph) you just don't feel good.
COUNSELOR: Like talking about the tool and the flower boxes and projects, that was a, a, a, are the, the communication its good?
PATIENT: Mm-hmm.
COUNSELOR: And Tim I wanted to let you know, take a few minutes to talk to you before you (inaudible) continue our discussion, but I wanted to let you know that some unexpected things have come up in my life that I want to patch (ph) up, finish working here on the 22nd of December. [0:30:04.3] And so I wanted to be able to work with you through that point and transfer your case to one another therapist. And I'm really trying to figure out who would be a good therapist for you, so I just wanted to let you know that ahead of time. What we'll do before that day is actually, I'll introduce you to that person and then you want to go from there as far as setting things up.
PATIENT: Okay, that's fine. COUNSELOR: Any problems (inaudible)?
PATIENT: We all have things that come up in our lives and we have to prioritize things when we run into difficult times we have to make the decisions that are best for us and I understand those are.
COUNSELOR: So this has been great working with you and I'm sure the next person is going to be, will be responsible for your case will be working with you as well and continue to help you on goals as you establish those (ph). [0:31:14.7]
PATIENT: So what is your assessment of me, the times that we've been together.
COUNSELOR: I see, I do see the depression that you mentioned, but over the time that we've worked together it seems like it wasn't, it's not as prevalent as it was when you initially started, but I definitely see it there.
I see when we talk about the anger, maybe the inner man explosive anger, depending on who or life circumstance and want you to be able to come up with ways to channel the anger and frustration. You have lots to be frustrated about, given the system and Social Security, the financial strain, the strain that your health puts on you, the strain of your wife's health (inaudible) houses, definitely a lot that could cause your frustration and anger. [0:32:25.0 ] And those feelings are totally appropriate, but it's, important to try and figure out ways to channel that so that it doesn't come out in explosive way that hurts yourself or interferes in
about:srcdoc Page 47 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
your marriage and, or in your abilities to be a better (ph) grandfather or whatever the case is.
I see that there might be some unresolved issues that you have from childhood with your own father and parents and I think that's come up and that's surfaced in you, me listening to the way you describe your, your childhood and your father and I can definitely see maybe some traces of things that, maybe your needs expressed to your father out of fear or whatever the case is that you might still fear him with you and the anger and things. [0:33:26.9 ] And then maybe even just learning some things from the way that your father handled conflict are things that maybe we when, and we look at your own style of handling conflict and handling your feelings. It seems similar to some patterns that maybe your dad made a model for you.
I see at times Tim, it seems like it, it may be a challenge for you to identify your feelings or openly talk about your feelings because I've noticed in conversation when I might ask you how this made you feel or how that made you feel, you either sometimes you change the subject or you tell me what you're thinking and that's totally, I mean a lot of them respond in that way and so I would hope over the course of treatment, and maybe it's not possible, but I would hope over the course of the treatment that, that the therapy can create a safe place for you to be able to get in touch with some of those things because if we all get in touch with those feelings, then at times those feelings is what controlled us in a sense. [0:34:45.5 ] And so if we can tap into that and experience them and be okay with experiencing them and be okay with expressing them, then we have control over them and we can direct and channel where they go. You see what I'm saying?
PATIENT: Yeah, I understand. It is difficult at times to talk about things. COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: And being in the service for 20 years I was around mostly men. There was some women that were there too, but mostly men and in the shop that I worked in there was just four guys that we worked out in a test cell, because we ran aircraft engines and we ran aircraft and we did all of the diagnostic stuff over the years and when you spend that much time, sometimes we were working eight hour days. [0:35:51.0] Some days we were working ten hour days and some days when we were out of the (inaudible) we were working as much as 24 hours with each other and guys just don't talk about their personal lives that much and we don't talk about their feelings and
COUNSELOR: That's the way society is structured too. PATIENT: It is.
COUNSELOR: Men shouldn't express themselves or shouldn't not (ph) a man needs to get in touch with feelings, you know.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: So it sounds like you identified with that part of yourself or that being in my shoe (ph)? PATIENT: I'm trying to. I'm trying to.
COUNSELOR: Another area I see too is intimacy towards (inaudible). We've had that discussion around intimacy in your relationship with your wife and how do you all build intimacy and have the marital relationships despite your physical ailments. [0:37:03.3]
about:srcdoc Page 48 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
PATIENT: That's the difficult part. That's the difficult part.
COUNSELOR: It seemed like that would be frustrating is what.
PATIENT: For both of us.
COUNSELOR: Two (ph). So those are the types of things that I wanted to share with the next therapist. Is there anything else you want, that, that you see that I may have missed?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: Is there anything that you don't agree with? Is there anything that you? PATIENT: Anything I don't agree with? No. They're just.
COUNSELOR: Okay. So those things are pretty accurate you think?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Did, did I miss anything? [0:38:00.2]
PATIENT: Not that I can recall right now.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Those are the things that I'll share with the therapist and I'm not sure, now we were on a bi-weekly schedule. Are you still satisfied with that and (inaudible) couple weeks (inaudible) looks like three weeks?
PATIENT: Yeah I think so. Did you have the opportunity to talk with anyone about the financial situation?
COUNSELOR: I did. The, the lowest fee that they can do is 35 dollars. That's the minimum that, that we get, and that's the minimum that they can take, do the fee weavers (ph) or lower payments is 35 dollars and if that's something that still puts a strain on you, then there are other places where I can refer you to if 35 dollars still is a strain. [0:39:08.6]
PATIENT: I, I can (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: Okay. If you feel the quality, the quality of the therapy is pretty cool here. I mean I would like to see you stay on board if possible.
PATIENT: And I had also talked about getting in to see a psychiatrist.
COUNSELOR: Right. I'm still waiting on that and so I'll make sure to complete a follow-up with that or that your therapist follows up. Because you want to get your meds reviewed (inaudible).
PATIENT: I think that's, that's everything.
COUNSELOR: Okay. So our next appointment would be
PATIENT: Tomorrow's the first. That'd be the seventh? The 14th of December. [0:40:14.0]
about:srcdoc Page 49 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
COUNSELOR: The 14th of December. (inaudible) Will you remember that or should I? Try and find a card. So we'll meet just one more time and then a (inaudible) therapist. (inaudible) I don't have my, I'll write on this post-it as we, this is for you to keep. Is this your second one?
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Want to hold onto that?
PATIENT: Yes. [0:41:00.7]
COUNSELOR: Okay. Any other questions?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: No? [I'll give you] (ph) half of that now. You look like your wheels are turning here. Did, were, were you going to say something?
PATIENT: Is this a bad personal thing? COUNSELOR: Oh. No, no. PATIENT: No?
COUNSELOR: I don't want to burden you with all that. But no, it's not. [Laughs] It's just a decision I made something. I was like, like how you're saying. Unexpected things happen in life and it's just one of them. So, like, but no I'm fine. [0:42:01.0]
PATIENT: All right. COUNSELOR: (inaudible) Okay?
PATIENT: You helped me to understand some things in my life and how to put them in perspective. I hope the next person can as well. Just keep (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: Well, (inaudible) Tim, but I'm sure the person (inaudible) prepared to see (inaudible) qualified if you continue (inaudible). But therapy is really a lot about what you bring in. The therapist is here kind of facilitating and, but what you got out of it is basically what you do here in the sessions and you've been really open and willing, and I think that's definitely quite a process of life [God doesn't think bad of him] (ph). [0:43:02.6]
PATIENT: Well the person who does the talking does most (inaudible) and keeps all these things inside and nobody knows really what's going on.
COUNSELOR: That's true. (inaudible) [Laughs] Okay, so I'll see you on the 14th? PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Okay. It sounds good. Do you have an umbrella or you [0:43:39.6]
about:srcdoc Page 50 of 51

Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact... childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life and physical limitations 11/8/25, 6:48 PM
END TRANSCRIPT
about:srcdoc Page 51 of 51
